<?xml version="1.0" ?>
<!DOCTYPE book PUBLIC "-//KDE//DTD DocBook XML V4.1-Based Variant V1.0//EN" "dtd/kdex.dtd" [
  <!ENTITY kappname "&kde; Quick Start Guide">
  <!ENTITY % addindex "IGNORE">
  <!ENTITY % English "INCLUDE" > <!-- change language only here -->
]>

<book lang="&language;">
<bookinfo>
	
<title>An Introduction to &kde;</title>

<authorgroup>

<author>
<surname>The KDE Team</surname>
</author>
<!-- TRANS:ROLES_OF_TRANSLATORS -->
</authorgroup>

<date>2000-07-10</date>
<releaseinfo>2.00.00</releaseinfo>

<copyright>
<year>1999</year><year>2000</year>
<holder>The KDE Team</holder>
</copyright>

<legalnotice>&FDLNotice;</legalnotice>

<abstract>
<para>An introduction to the K Desktop Environment</para>
<para>Quick Start Guide to &kde;</para></abstract>

<keywordset>
<keyword>KDE</keyword>
<keyword>quick start</keyword>
<keyword>introduction</keyword>
</keywordset>
</bookinfo>

<chapter id="introduction">
<title>Introduction</title>

<para>
This document is a brief introduction to the K Desktop Environment. It
will familiarize you with some of the basic features of &kde;.
</para>

<para>
This guide is far from covering all aspects of the K Desktop or even most
of them. It will only describe some of the most basic ways to accomplish a few
of the most common tasks.
</para>

<para>
We assume that you are already familiar with at least one graphical user
interface, for example <trademark>CDE</trademark>, <trademark>Geos</trademark>,
<trademark>GEM</trademark>, &NeXTSTEP;, &Mac;, <trademark>OS/2</trademark> or
&Microsoft; &Windows;. So we will not explain the usage of the mouse or the
keyboard but concentrate on hopefully more interesting things. 
</para>

</chapter>

<chapter id="an-overview-of-kde">
<title>An Overview of &kde;</title>

<para>
This section is for users who prefer to learn by exploring and want only a
brief orientation to get started. Later sections provide a more thorough
introduction to the environment, with helpful hints and shortcuts. If you are
impatient to get started, skim this section, go play for a bit, then come back
and peruse the other sections of this guide as needed.
</para>

<note>
<para>
Note: &kde; provides a highly configurable desktop environment. This
overview assumes that you are using the default environment.
</para>
</note>

<sect1 id="the-kde-desktop">
<title>The &kde; Desktop</title>

<para>A typical &kde; desktop consists of several:</para>

<itemizedlist>
<listitem>
<para>A <interface>panel</interface> at the bottom of the screen, used
to start applications and switch between desktops. Among other things, it
contains the Application Starter, a large <guiicon>K</guiicon> icon
which displays a menu of applications to start when clicked. 
</para>
</listitem>

<listitem>
<para>
A <interface>taskbar</interface>, by default embedded in the panel, used
to switch between and manage currently running applications. Click on an
application on the taskbar to zip to the application.
</para>
</listitem> 

<listitem>
<para>
The <interface>desktop</interface> itself, on which frequently used
files and folders may be placed. &kde; provides multiple desktops, each
of which has its own windows. Click on the numbered buttons on the panel
to switch between desktops.
</para>
</listitem>
</itemizedlist>

</sect1>

<sect1 id="ready-set-go">
<title>Ready, Set, Go!</title>

<para>Here are a few quick tips to get you up and running.</para>

<itemizedlist>
<listitem>
<para>
To start an application, click on the <guiicon>K</guiicon> button on the
panel (called the <link linkend="starter">Application Starter</link>)
and choose an item from the menu.
</para>
</listitem>
<listitem>
<para>
Click the icon that looks like a folder with a picture of a
house on the panel to access the files in your home directory using
&konqueror;, &kde;'s File Manager utility.
</para>
</listitem>
<listitem>
<para>Choose <menuchoice><guimenu>Application Starter</guimenu>
<guisubmenu>System</guisubmenu>
<guimenuitem>Terminal</guimenuitem></menuchoice> to get a &UNIX; command
prompt, or press <keycombo action="simul">&Alt;
<keycap>F2</keycap></keycombo> to get a mini command prompt window to
execute a single command.
</para>
</listitem>

<listitem>
<para>
Choose the <guiicon>KDE Control Center</guiicon> item on Application
Starter to configure &kde;.
</para>
</listitem> 

<listitem>
<para>
Press <keycombo action="simul">&Alt;<keycap>Tab</keycap></keycombo> to
switch between applications and
<keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>Tab</keycap></keycombo> to switch
between desktops using the keyboard.
</para>
</listitem> 

<listitem>
<para>
Use the &RMB; mouse button to access context menus for the panel,
desktop, and most &kde; applications.
</para>
</listitem> 
</itemizedlist>

</sect1>
</chapter>

<chapter id="launching-applications">
<title>Launching Applications</title>

<sect1 id="starter">
<title>Using the Application Starter and the Panel</title>

<para>
On the bottom of the screen you find the desktop panel, which is called
&kicker;.  You use the panel to launch applications. Have a look at the
button on the left with a large <guiicon>K</guiicon>.
</para>

<para> 
This button is called the <guiicon>Application Starter</guiicon>. It has
a small arrow on the top to indicate that it will pop up a menu if you
click on it. Just do it! The pop-up offers you easy access to all &kde;
applications installed on your computer system.
</para>

<sect2>
<title>Customizing &kicker;</title>

<para>
If you use one application or tool very often, then you may want to have
even faster access to it, of course. In this case, you can add a single
application, or an entire sub-menu of the Application Starter menu, as a
special quick-launch button onto the panel. If you want to reach the
&kfind; application directly via a launch button, simply choose
<menuchoice><guimenu>Application starter</guimenu> <guisubmenu>Panel
Menu</guisubmenu> <guisubmenu>Add</guisubmenu>
<guisubmenu>Button</guisubmenu> <guimenuitem>Find
Files</guimenuitem></menuchoice> (By this we mean that you should first
click the <guimenu>Application Starter</guimenu>, then select
<guisubmenu>Panel Menu</guisubmenu> where the small arrow to the right
indicates that another menu will pop up. In this menu, choose
<guisubmenu>Add</guisubmenu>, then <guisubmenu>Button</guisubmenu>, and
in the next sub-menu, <guimenuitem>Find Files</guimenuitem>.).
</para>
	
<para>
You can add an entire menu this way, or one of the <guiicon>K</guiicon>
button sub-menus.  For example, if you have &koffice; installed and
want quick access to all the &koffice; applications, without having to
navigate through the application starter, then instead of choosing an
application, click on the <guimenuitem>Add this menu</guimenuitem> menu
entry.  Now you will have instant access to all the &koffice;
applications, without having to put an icon for each on the panel.
</para>

<note>
<para>
you can move all items of the panel around with the
<guimenuitem>move</guimenuitem> command of the context menu. Just click
with the <mousebutton>third</mousebutton> mouse button (the
<mousebutton>third</mousebutton> mouse button is normally the
<mousebutton>right</mousebutton> button, but if you have configured your
mouse differently, for example for left-handers, it might also be the
<mousebutton>left</mousebutton> one). A menu will pop up where you can
choose <guimenuitem>Move</guimenuitem>. Now move the mouse and see how
the icon follows while still staying on the panel. When you are done,
simply hit the <mousebutton>first</mousebutton> mouse button (by default
the <mousebutton>left</mousebutton> one). As you have may have noticed,
there is also a menu entry <guimenuitem>Remove</guimenuitem> in case you
are tired of a certain launch button on your desktop.
</para> 
</note>

</sect2>

<sect2>
<title>Using Context menus</title>

<para>
This leads us to another interesting topic: in many places, you can
click the <mousebutton>right</mousebutton> mouse button to display a
<interface>context menu</interface> with choices that are applicable to
the item you clicked. It is therefore always a good idea to try out the
<mousebutton>third</mousebutton> mouse button on something, if you do
not know what to do with it. Even the background of the desktops has
such a menu!  
</para>

</sect2>

<sect2>
<title>Other Panel features</title>

<para>
There are other interesting things possible with the panel. One
may be important if you have a low resolution on your monitor: it is
the <quote>hide-and-show</quote> function, activated by clicking on the
textured bar on the left edge of the panel.  
</para>

<para>
Perhaps you just don't like the panel extending the full width of the
screen.  That's easily changed!  <mousebutton>RMB</mousebutton> on an
empty space in the panel, and choose
<menuchoice><guimenu>Panel</guimenu>
<guisubmenu>Preferences</guisubmenu></menuchoice>.  In the &kcontrol;
dialog that pops up, you can choose <guilabel>Panel Size</guilabel> on
the <guilabel>General</guilabel> tab, and use the slider there to set
the panel to less than 100% width.
</para>

<para>
If you're following along, and have that dialog open anyway, then feel
free to play with all the options, and use the
<guibutton>Apply</guibutton> to see the effect they have.  You can
easily reset everything to the default configuration, by simply pressing
the <guibutton>Use Defaults</guibutton> button.
</para>

<para>
By the way, if you are not sure what a certain button does in &kde;,
just move the mouse pointer over it and wait for a short while: &kde;
has a built-in mini context help, called <quote>tool tips</quote>, which
explains the functionality of such controls in a few words.  
</para>


</sect2>
</sect1>

<sect1 id="want-command-line-back">
<title>But I want my command line back!</title>

<para>
Just calm down, there is nothing to fear. &kde; does not want to take your
beloved (and sometimes very effective) command line away from you. You can move
your files with the desktop, but you can also use the &UNIX; commands you are
accustomed to. In fact,&kde; puts command line power at your fingertips,
in perhaps some surprising places.
</para>

<para>
&kde; provides a very sophisticated command line window called
&konsole;.  Choose <menuchoice><guimenu>application
starter</guimenu> <guisubmenu>System</guisubmenu>
<guimenuitem>Terminal</guimenuitem></menuchoice> to start it. This may
be something you want on your panel, luckily it's already there in the
default configuration!
</para>
  
<para>
Sometimes, you only want to enter one command on the command line. In
these cases, you do not need a full-blown terminal. Just hit
<keycombo><keycap>Alt</keycap> <keycap>F2</keycap></keycombo> and you get a
small command line where you can enter one command. The command line
window will disappear afterwards, but it remembers your command.
</para>

<para>
When you pop up this window (which we call
<application>minicli</application> by the way) and hit the
<keycap>Up-arrow</keycap>, you can browse through all the commands you
have previously entered.  Also, you can enter <acronym>URL</acronym>'s
in <application>minicli</application> to open a &konqueror; window with
the specified <acronym>URL</acronym>.
</para>

<para>
&konqueror; and the editor &kate; can both display terminal windows,
which behave just like &konsole;.  In &konqueror;, you can turn this on
with the menu choice
<menuchoice><guimenu>Window</guimenu><guimenuitem>Show Terminal
Window</guimenuitem></menuchoice>.  The embedded terminal will display
at the bottom of your &konqueror; window, and the really clever thing is
that it will follow your clicks in the file manager view, changing
directory as you do.  In &kate; you can display a terminal with the menu
choice <menuchoice><guimenu>Windows</guimenu> <guimenuitem>Show
Console</guimenuitem></menuchoice>.  
</para>

<tip>
<para>
To display a Unix man page, enter
<userinput><command>man:</command><parameter>command</parameter></userinput>
in <application>minicli</application>, where
<parameter>command</parameter> is the name of a &UNIX; command.
</para>
</tip>

<tip>
<para>
To search for a word or words on the Google search engine, you can try
<userinput><command>gg:</command><parameter>word or
words</parameter></userinput>.  There's a whole lot more of these
shortcut commands, and you can even add your own!  Take a look in
&kcontrol;, in the tab <menuchoice><guilabel>Web Browsing</guilabel>
<guilabel>Enhanced Browsing</guilabel></menuchoice>.
</para>
</tip>

<para>
Finally, there's a way to have your command line always available, no
matter what you're doing - add one to your &kicker; panel! 
</para>

<para>
Simply &RMB; click on an empty space in the panel, and choose
<menuchoice><guimenu>Panel</guimenu> <guisubmenu>Add</guisubmenu>
		  <guisubmenu>Applet</guisubmenu> <guimenuitem>Application
Launcher</guimenuitem></menuchoice>.  This will embed a mini-cli
directly into your panel, complete with command history.
</para>

<para>
So, in conclusion, the command line is never far from view when you're
using &kde;.
</para>

</sect1>
</chapter>

<chapter id="working-with-windows">
<title>Working with Windows</title>

<para>
If you have not already done so, start an application using the <link
linkend="starter"><guiicon>Application Starter</guiicon></link>, like
<guimenuitem>Find Files</guimenuitem>.  
</para>

<sect1 id="window-what-now">
<title>A window! What now?</title>

<para>
Well, usually people work <emphasis>inside</emphasis> windows, but
sometimes you may want to manipulate windows. Here's a quick overview of
some of the most common window related functions:
</para>

<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term>Move a window</term>
<listitem>
<para>
Drag the window's title bar, or hold the &Alt; key down
and drag anywhere in the window.
</para>
</listitem> 
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>Resize a window:</term>
<listitem>
<para>
Drag the window's border, or hold the &Alt; key down and drag with the
&RMB; mouse button anywhere in the window. 
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>Maximize a window</term>
<listitem>
<para>
Click the maximize button in the title bar (in the default decoration it
is the square, next to the X) to make the window fill the screen, or if
the window is already maximized, to shrink it back to it's original
size.  Clicking with the &MMB; maximizes the window vertically; the
&RMB;, horizontally.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>Iconify a window</term>
<listitem>
<para>
Click the iconify button in the title bar (next to Maximize) to hide the
window.  Get it back by clicking on the window's icon in the
taskbar.
</para>
</listitem> 
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>Switch between windows</term>
<listitem>
<para>
Aside from the usual mouse click to switch to another window,
you can use <keycombo action="simul">&Alt;
<keycap>Tab</keycap></keycombo> to switch windows.  See below for more
techniques.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>

<sect2>
<title>Title bar buttons</title>

<para>
&kde; windows have some pretty standard buttons on their title bars which
give you fast access to some common operations. The default button
layout looks like this:
</para>

<itemizedlist>
<title>On the left side:</title>
<listitem>
<para>
A menu button. This usually shows a mini icon for the application. Click
on it to get a window operations menu.  Shortcut: <keycombo
action="simul">&Alt; <keycap>F3</keycap></keycombo> opens the window
menu.
</para>
</listitem>
 
<listitem>
<para>
A sticky button, with a picture of a tack. What the heck is this? Stay
tuned! 
</para>
</listitem> 
</itemizedlist>

<itemizedlist>
<title>On the right side:</title>
<listitem>
<para>
An iconify button. 
</para>
</listitem>

<listitem>
<para>
A maximize button. 
</para>
</listitem>

<listitem>
<para>
A close button. This closes the window. Shortcut: <keycombo
action="simul">&Alt; <keycap>F4</keycap></keycombo>.  
</para>
</listitem>
</itemizedlist>

</sect2>

<sect2>
<title>Switching between windows</title>

<para>
Now that we know how to deal with windows we encourage you to open some
other windows with the panel since we will now discuss how to switch
between different windows. Since this is such a common activity, &kde;
offers several ways to do it; pick your favorite!
</para>

<para>
Many window systems require you to click the mouse in another window to
begin using it. This is &kde;'s default behavior, termed
<quote>ClickToFocus</quote> focus policy. But you can also configure
your desktop in a way that moving the mouse pointer onto a window will
activate it. This is called <quote>FocusFollowMouse</quote>. If you
select this policy using the <link linkend="configure">KDE Control
Center</link>, the window under the mouse pointer is always the active
one. It doesn't necessarily come to the front automatically, but you can
still click onto the title bar or the border of a window or -- a &kde;
special -- you can use the &Alt; key and click the
<mousebutton>middle</mousebutton> mouse button anywhere on the window to
raise it.
</para>

<para>
Here are some other methods to switch windows:
</para>

<itemizedlist>
<listitem>
<para>
Pick a window from the <emphasis>window list</emphasis> menu. To open
the menu, click the <mousebutton>middle</mousebutton> mouse button on an
empty area of the desktop, or click the icon with several windows on the
panel, or finally click the up arrow at the left hand end of the
taskbar in the panel.
</para>
</listitem> 

<listitem>
<para>
Hold down the &Alt; key and press <keycap>Tab</keycap> to cycle through
the windows.
</para>
</listitem> 

<listitem>
<para>
Use the taskbar (see below).
</para>
</listitem>
</itemizedlist>

</sect2>
</sect1>

<sect1 id="using-taskbar">
<title>Using the Taskbar</title>

<para>
The <interface>taskbar</interface> displays a list of small icons, one for
each window on the desktop. In the default &kde; setup the taskbar is
located inside the panel, but it can also be located at the top or the
bottom of the screen.
</para> 

<para>
The taskbar is very powerful: A simple click with the
<mousebutton>left</mousebutton> mouse button on the appropriate taskbar
button will bring you to the selected application immediately. Click an
entry with the <mousebutton>middle</mousebutton> mouse button  to
iconify/deiconify a window. Last but not least, the
<mousebutton>right</mousebutton> mouse button will pop up a context
menu, with window operations for the selected window.
</para> 

<para>
You can choose to see all the windows on all the desktops in your
taskbar, no matter which desktop you are currently viewing, or to only
see the icons for the desktop you are looking at.  You can also choose
to group the icons, so that all open &konqueror; windows display as one
icon, and clicking and holding the mouse button on that icon will pop up
a list to choose from.  This and many more options are available simply
by right clicking on the taskbar handle (the small textured bar at the
left hand side) and choosing <guimenuitem>Preferences</guimenuitem>.
</para>

<para>
The icons on the taskbar resize themselves to make room for
applications, so you can fit many more applications than you might
think.  Making the panel wider, will let the taskbar icons take on a row
and column layout, but they will still resize to fit more icons.  
</para>

</sect1>

<sect1 id="using-v-desktops">
<title>Using Virtual Desktops</title>

<para>
Now, what was that <quote>sticky</quote> thing?
</para>

<para>
It may happen that you have more windows open than space on your
desktop. In this case you have three possibilities: 
</para>

<orderedlist>
<listitem>
<para> 
Leave all windows open (cluttered desktop)
</para>
</listitem>

<listitem>
<para> 
Iconify those windows which you do not need at present and use
the taskbar or <keycombo action="simul">&Alt;
			  <keycap>Tab</keycap></keycombo> to switch between them
(still a bit confusing and much work!) 
</para>
</listitem> 

<listitem>
<para>
Recommended: Do what a real operating system does if there is not enough
physical memory: Use virtual memory, in this case virtual desktops. 
</para>
</listitem>
</orderedlist>

<para>
Item 3 is the way to go! &kde; can handle several different desktops,
each with its own windows. The default configuration provides four
desktops.  You can switch between the virtual desktops easily with a
click on one of the desktop buttons on the panel. Also <keycombo
action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>F1...F8</keycap></keycombo> will send you
to the corresponding desktop immediately, or <keycombo
action="simul">&Ctrl; <keycap>Tab</keycap></keycombo> will cycle through
the desktops.
</para>

<para>
Virtual desktops are very nice. But sometimes you want a window to be
present on <emphasis>every</emphasis> desktop. This could be for example
a small chat window or a alarm clock or whatever. In this case you can
use the above mentioned <quote>sticky</quote> button which will pin the
window on the background so that it will appear on every virtual
desktop.
</para> 

<para>
The sticky button can also be used to move a window from one virtual
desktop to another one: push the sticky pin on the window, switch to a
different desktop, and release the pin by pushing it again. It is easier
if you use the context pop-up menu of the window's entry in the taskbar
(menu item <guimenuitem>Onto current desktop</guimenuitem>) or the
<guimenuitem>Send to</guimenuitem> option on the window operations menu.
</para>

</sect1>
</chapter>

<chapter id="managing-your-files">
<title>Managing your files</title>

<para>
A common metaphor of graphical desktops is the use of folders to
represent directories on your hard disk. Folders contain files and other
folders. A &kde; application called &konqueror;, the K File Manager,
uses this metaphor to help you manage your files.
</para>

<sect1 id="using-konqueror">
<title>Using &konqueror;</title>

<para>
The first time you start &kde;, a window with lots of icons in it
appears. This is a &konqueror; window displaying the files in your home
directory (the area where your personal files are stored). The pathname
of the folder is displayed under the window's tool bar. If you don't see
such a window now, click the icon on the panel that looks like a folder
with a picture of a house.
</para>

<para>
To open a file or folder, simply click it once with the &LMB; mouse
button. You can also choose
<menuchoice><guimenu>Window</guimenu><guimenuitem>Show
Sidebar</guimenuitem></menuchoice> from the menu to display the folder
hierarchy for more direct navigation. Or you can edit the path displayed
under the tool bar to get to a specific directory quickly. 
</para>

<sect2>
<title>Opening Files</title>

<para>
&kde; comes with a set of applications to view and edit many common
kinds of files, and when you click a file containing, say, a document or
image, &konqueror; will start the appropriate application to display the
file. If it doesn't know what application to start to open a file you
clicked, &konqueror; will prompt you for the name of the application to
run, and when you have chosen, &konqueror; will offer to remember your
choice for next time you open on of those files.
</para>

<note>
<para>
&konqueror; uses <link linkend="mime">MIME types</link> to associate
files with applications. 
</para>
</note> 

</sect2>

<sect2>
<title>Dragging and Dropping Icons</title>

<para>
To copy or move a file, simply drag its icon to the desktop, to another
&konqueror; window, or to a folder icon.  When you release the button,
&konqueror; displays a menu to allow you to choose to copy, move, or
create a link to the file.
</para>

<note>
<para>
Note that if you choose to create a link, &kde; creates a &UNIX;
symbolic link (not a hard link), so if you move or delete the original 
file, the link will be broken.
</para>
</note>

<para>
Most &kde; applications also support drag and drop operations: you can
drag an icon onto a window of running application, or onto an icon of an
application that is not started, to have the application open the
file. Try it!
</para>

</sect2>

<sect2>
<title>Setting File Properties</title>
 
<para>
To change file properties, such as its name and permissions, &RMB; click
the icon and choose <guimenuitem>Properties</guimenuitem> from the menu.
</para>

</sect2>
</sect1>

<sect1 id="archives-and-networks">
<title>Working with Archives and Networks</title>

<para>
In the near past, you needed special software to access files on the
Internet. Not any more!
</para>

<para>
&kde; KDE supports a technology called <quote>Network Transparent
Access</quote> (<acronym>NTA</acronym>) which allows you to work with
files  on the other side of the earth as easily as those on your local
hard disk.
</para> 

<para>
For example, to access files on an &FTP; server, just choose
<menuchoice><guimenu>Location</guimenu><guimenuitem>Open
Location</guimenuitem></menuchoice> from a &konqueror; menu, and enter
the <acronym>URL</acronym> of an &FTP; server.  You can drag and drop
files to and from the folders on the server just as if they were on your
local disk. You'll even be able to open files on the &FTP; server
without having to copy them to your local disk (&kde; does it for you
when necessary).
</para>

<note>
<para>
Note that &konqueror; uses anonymous &FTP; access, which may restrict
your access to files on the &FTP; server.  If you have an account on the
server, you can supply your user <abbrev>ID</abbrev> as part of the
<acronym>URL</acronym>, like this:
<userinput><command>ftp://</command><parameter>userid</parameter>@<parameter>server</parameter>/<parameter>directory</parameter></userinput>
</para>

<para>
&konqueror; will prompt you for your password, and if the login
succeeds, you will have full access to your files on the server.
</para>
</note>

<para>
If you are used to the
<trademark><application>WinZip</application></trademark> utility on
&Microsoft; &Windows;, then you will be happy to hear that &kde; can
look into tar archives, too. It treats such archives just like a normal
folder -- you can browse into the archive, open files, etc. In general,
accessing files on the Internet and in archives should look and feel
just like accessing files on your local disk, except for delays imposed
by the network.
</para>
</sect1>

<sect1 id="using-templates">
<title>Using Templates to access Applications and Devices</title>

<para>
In &kde; it's easy to put icons on the panel or the desktop to access
your applications.  It's just as easy to add icons to access other items
of interest.  &kde; has templates for shortcuts to:
</para>

<itemizedlist>
<listitem>
<para>
Applications
</para>
</listitem>
<listitem>
<para>
Printers
</para>
</listitem>
<listitem>
<para>
Mountable Devices (&eg; floppy drives)
</para>
</listitem> 
<listitem>
<para>
Internet resources (&eg; <acronym>WWW</acronym> documents, &FTP;
directories)
</para>
</listitem>
<listitem>
<para>
Documents for some of &kde;'s &koffice; applications.
</para>
</listitem>
</itemizedlist>

<para>
You can add any of these items to the desktop by &RMB; clicking where
you want the icon, and choosing <guisubmenu>Create
New</guisubmenu> and
selecting the item you want to link to.
</para>

<para>
Nearly every item in the Application Starter, on the desktop, and on the
panel refers to a <literal role="extension">.desktop</literal> file on
disk. The <literal role="extension">.desktop</literal> file specifies
what icon to display, as well as specific information about what the
icon represents (an application, device, or <acronym>URL</acronym>). You
can drag any <literal role="extension">.desktop</literal> file to the
panel to create a quick-launch button.
</para>

<!-- 
<sect2>
<title>Setting up printers</title>

<para>
You can create icons for your printers so that you can print a file by
dragging it to a printer icon. Here's how:
</para>

<procedure>
<step><para>Open the Templates folder located on the desktop. </para></step>
<step><para>Drag the Program icon in the folder to the desktop. Choose
<guimenuitem>Copy</guimenuitem> from the menu that appears when you drop the
icon.</para></step>
<step><para><mousebutton>Right</mousebutton> click the new icon, and choose
<guimenuitem>Properties</guimenuitem> from the context menu.</para></step>
<step><para>On the <guilabel>General</guilabel> tab, change the name to
<filename>Printer.kdelnk</filename>.</para></step>
<step><para>On the <guilabel>Execute</guilabel> tab, enter the following in the
first <guilabel>Execute</guilabel> field:</para>
<screen><command>lpr <option>%f</option></command></screen>
<note><para>This example assumes that you print using the <command>lpr</command>
command. If you use a different command, enter the one you
use.</para></note></step>
<step><para>Still in the <guilabel>Execute</guilabel> tab, click the icon that
looks like a <guiicon>cog</guiicon>, and select the <guiicon>Printer</guiicon> icon from the list that appears.</para></step>
</procedure>

<para>Now you should be able to drag a file to the Printer icon and have it
printed on your default printer.</para> 
</sect2>

--> 

<sect2>
<title>Mounting devices</title>

<para>
&UNIX; provides access to storage devices other than the primary
<hardware>hard disk</hardware> through a process called
<emphasis>mounting</emphasis>. &kde; uses <literal
role="extension">.desktop</literal> files to allow you to easily mount,
unmount, and access files on secondary storage devices such as
<hardware>floppy</hardware> drives and &cdrom; drives.
</para>

<para>
As an example, here are the steps needed to create an icon to access
files on a floppy disk:
</para>

<note>
<para>
Many systems require you to be logged in as
<systemitem class="username">root</systemitem> to mount and unmount
devices.
</para>
</note>

<procedure>
<step>
<para><mousebutton>Right</mousebutton> click on the desktop and choose
<menuchoice><guisubmenu>Create New</guisubmenu> <guimenuitem>Floppy
Device...</guimenuitem></menuchoice>.
</para>
</step>
<step>
<para>
On the <guilabel>General</guilabel> tab of the resulting dialog, change
the name to as you like, in the text box at the top.
</para>
</step>

<step>
<para>
On the <guilabel>Device</guilabel> tab, enter <filename
class="devicefile">/dev/fd0</filename> (or the path to the floppy device
as it is named on your system) as the <guilabel>Device</guilabel>.
</para>
</step>
<step>
<para>
You can add a <guilabel>Mount Point</guilabel> here too.  This should be
an existing directory, but empty.  Common mount points are <filename
class="directory">/mnt/floppy</filename> or <filename
class="directory">/floppy</filename>, but you can as easily have floppy
disks mounted as <filename class="directory">~/mydisk</filename> if you
want.
</para>
</step> 
<step>
<para>
Click the <guilabel>Unmounted Icon</guilabel> and select the picture
of a floppy disk without the green light.
</para>
</step>
<step>
<para>
Once you're happy with your choices, choose <guibutton>OK</guibutton>
and you are finished!
</para>
</step>
</procedure>

<para>
Now, place a properly formatted floppy in the drive and click the
<guiicon>Floppy</guiicon> icon to have &kde; mount the floppy drive and display
the files on the disk. Before removing the disk from the drive, &RMB;
click the <guiicon>Floppy</guiicon> icon and choose
<guimenuitem>Unmount</guimenuitem> from the menu.
</para>

</sect2>
</sect1>
</chapter>

<chapter id="configure">
<title>Configuring your desktop</title>

<para>
If you do not like something about the way the desktop looks or
operates, you can probably change it. &kde; is very configurable and you
can change almost every aspect of the appearance and the behavior of
your desktop. Unlike many other &UNIX; desktop environments, you do not
have to edit cryptic configuration files, either (but you can if you
really want to)!  You use the &kcontrol;, a special program for
configuring your desktop.
</para>

<sect1 id="using-kde-control">
<title>Using the <application>KDE Control Center</application></title>

<para>
Launch the &kcontrol; from the <link linkend="starter">Application
Starter</link>. A window with two panes appears, displaying a list of
modules in the left pane.
</para>  

<para> 
Open a module by clicking its name; a list of submodules will
appear. Then, click one of the submodule category names to edit its
configuration in the right pane.
</para>

<para>
Changing the configuration is fairly straightforward. A help button is
available on each configuration panel to explain settings that are not
obvious.  Each panel has buttons labeled <guibutton>Help</guibutton>,
<guibutton>Use Defaults</guibutton>, <guibutton>Apply</guibutton>, and
<guibutton>Reset</guibutton>, which work as follows:
</para>

<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term><guibutton>Help</guibutton></term>
<listitem>
<para>
Displays a short help text in the left hand pane, including a link to a
longer manual for the module in question.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><guibutton>Use Defaults</guibutton></term>
<listitem>
<para>
Sets all the options in the current module back to the default at the
time &kde; was installed.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><guibutton>Apply</guibutton></term>
<listitem>
<para>
Applies the current settings in the currently open module.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><guibutton>Reset</guibutton></term>
<listitem>
<para>
Reset the options to the state they were in when you opened the module.
If you have already used the <guibutton>Apply</guibutton> button, then
this button will reset the options to the state they were in when you
pressed <guibutton>Apply</guibutton>.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>

<note>
<para>
If you make changes on one configuration panel and move to a different
module without clicking <guibutton>Ok</guibutton> or
<guibutton>Apply</guibutton> first, &kcontrol; will prompt you if your
changes should be applied first.
</para>
</note>

</sect1>

<sect1 id="configuration-modules">
<title>Configuration Modules</title>

<para>
Here is a brief overview of the major configuration modules categories:
</para>

<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>File Browsing</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>
Contains options that relate to how you view the contents of your local
system.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Information</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>
Contains modules that you normally can't use to change anything.  They
display useful information about your computer instead.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Look &amp; Feel</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>
Here you find the modules that have the most visible effect on your
environment:  Colors, styles, window decorations. Nearly everything you
see can be customized to suit your tastes, and the few things that can't
be, soon will.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Network</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>
The place to configure how your computer sees the world outside, as well
as how the world sees you.  Among other things you can set up central
email identities that many &kde; applications can use, to save you
having to enter the same information over and over, you can set up SOCKS
firewall support, and you can configure windows (<acronym>SMB</acronym>)
shares... and much more.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Peripherals</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>
Contains settings for your keyboard and mouse.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Personalization</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>
Here you can set up things that make your life easier, from
accessibility features to localization, so that &kde; applications know
how you like to see numbers and dates formatted, for example.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Power Control</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>
If your display supports power saving features, or you are using a
laptop, this is the place to configure them.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Sound</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>
Configure the sound daemon (&artsd;) and other audio behavior.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>System</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>
Here you can set the remaining system features - how the &konsole; and
&kdm; applications behave, set up printing, and set your system date.
You might not be able to set some of these options unless you are logged
in as <systemitem class="username">root</systemitem>, but &kcontrol;
will let you know if this is the case.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Web Browsing</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>
With the Internet, and especially the web being such an integral part of
today's computer world, there are many options to be set to enhance your
experience.  You'll find them all here, from setting up custom style
sheets, to proxies and caching.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>

<para>
Go ahead!  Explore the configuration possibilities and discover the
flexibility of &kde;.
</para>

</sect1>
</chapter>

<chapter id="logging-out">
<title>Logging out</title>

<para>
We sincerely hope that using the &kde; gives you so much fun and
pleasure that you never want to log out. But if you do, simply choose
<menuchoice><guimenu>Application starter</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>logout</guimenuitem></menuchoice>.
</para>

<para>
There is also a logout button directly on the panel, which looks like a
small power button.  Or you can press <keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;
&Alt; <keycap>Delete</keycap></keycombo> to log out.
</para>

<sect1 id="session-management">
<title>Session Management</title>

<para>
When you log out, &kde; remembers which applications you had open, as well
as where all the windows were located, so that it can open them for you
the next time you log in. This feature is termed <emphasis>Session
Management</emphasis>. &kde; aware applications will restore themselves
to the state they were in when you logged out.  For example, &kate;
remembers which files you were editing. 
</para> 

<para>
Non-KDE applications do not memorize their state on logout, and KDE will
warn you to make sure that you have saved any important data in them
when you start to log out.
</para>

<para>
To illustrate session management, choose <menuchoice>
<guimenu>Application
starter</guimenu><guisubmenu>Applications</guisubmenu>
<guimenuitem>Editor</guimenuitem> </menuchoice> to start &kedit;. Open a
text document to edit. Now log out and back in. You will observe that
&kate; will be restored to the exact same position on the screen,
including the right virtual desktop and the document we left open in
&kate; before we logged out is opened again automatically.  &kate; will
even remember whether you had unsaved changes to your document before
you logged out and will save them to the file you were working on if you
choose <guimenuitem>Save</guimenuitem> from the <guimenu>File</guimenu>
menu.
</para>

</sect1>
</chapter>

<chapter id="kde-an-exciting-journey">
<title>&kde;, an exciting Journey</title>

<para>
We hope you enjoyed this brief tour of the K Desktop environment and
that this unique desktop environment will help you get your work done
faster and more comfortably than ever.
</para>

<para>
Please remember that the &kde; project is not a commercial venture, but
rather a project run by volunteers from all over the world. We would
like to invite you to join the &kde; project and become part of this
unique network of people. If you are a programmer you might consider
helping us write &kde; applications. If you are an artist or have
experience with graphic design, consider creating icons sets, color
schemes,  sound schemes and logos for &kde;.  If you enjoy writing we
would love for  you to join our documentation project.
</para>

<para>
As you can see there are many ways in which you can help. You are
cordially invited to join this world-wide network of people dedicated to
making &kde; the best desktop environment for any computer. Please visit
<ulink url="http://www.kde.org">www.kde.org</ulink> for more
information.
</para>

<para>
<emphasis>Welcome aboard on this exciting journey, </emphasis>
</para>
<para>
<literal>Your KDE Team</literal>
</para>
</chapter>

<chapter id="advanced-topics">
<title>Advanced Topics</title>

<sect1 id="mime">
<title>Mime Types</title>

<para>
&kde; comes with a number of &MIME; types predefined, but you can add
your own &MIME; types by choosing
<menuchoice><guimenu>Settings</guimenu>
<guisubmenu>Configure</guisubmenu> <guimenuitem>File
Associations</guimenuitem> </menuchoice> in a &konqueror; window.
</para>

<para>
&kde;'s handling of &MIME; types is very powerful, and very
configurable.  On the one hand, you can set a default action to be
performed when you click on a file in &konqueror;.  Just as useful, you
can add many more actions, which are then available with a &RMB; click
menu on the file in question.
</para>

<!-- Note: this is copied from the user-guide - eventually these two -->
<!-- docs will merge, so there's no point adding new text in both, but -->
<!-- for the moment they have a slightly different audience -->
<procedure>
<title>To link a certain file type with a particular application:</title>
<step>
<para>
Make sure the application you want to start this file type has an
entry in the <guimenu>Application Starter</guimenu> menu.
</para>
</step>

<step>
<para>In &konqueror; find or make a file with the extension you wish to
link.
</para>
</step> 

<step>
<para>
<mousebutton>Right</mousebutton> click on the file, and choose
<guimenuitem>Edit File Type</guimenuitem> from the context menu, or
choose <menuchoice><guimenu>Edit</guimenu><guimenuitem>Edit File
Type</guimenuitem></menuchoice> in &konqueror;'s menu bar.
</para>
</step>

<step>
<para>
Add file masks for the application by clicking the
<guibutton>Add</guibutton> button, and entering the file pattern you
want. Remember that Unix is case sensitive, so you may need to add
variations - <literal role="extension">*.mp3</literal> may need <literal
role="extension">*.MP3</literal> added as well, for example.  Add as
many extensions as you like in this way.
</para>
</step>

<step>
<para>
Add a description if you like.  This is optional.
</para>
</step>

<step>
<para>In the section labeled <guilabel>Application Preference
Order</guilabel>, press the <guibutton>Add</guibutton> button.  A
miniature copy of the <guimenu>Application Starter</guimenu> menu will
open, where you can choose the application you want files of this type
to be opened with.
</para>
</step>

<step>
<para>
Sometimes, you may want to use a different application to open this file
type.  For example, you might like to use &kate; to open text files you
wish to edit, and &kedit; for text files that you just want to take a
quick peek into.  You can add more applications in the same way as you
did in the last step, and you can change the preferred order using the
<guibutton>Move Up</guibutton> and <guibutton>Move Down</guibutton>
buttons.
</para>
</step> 

<step>
<para>
If you're satisfied with your choices, you can click the
<guibutton>Apply</guibutton> button to save your changes without closing
the dialog box.  This gives you the opportunity to test in the
<application>Konqueror</application> window that your file association
is correct.  You can choose <guibutton>OK</guibutton> to save your
changes and close the dialog box, or <guibutton>Cancel</guibutton> if
you have changed your mind and just want to close the dialog box.
</para>
</step>
</procedure>
  
<para>
Be sure to try your new association by opening a directory containing a
file of the type you just selected. Click on the file, and the program
needed to edit it should start.
</para>

<note>
<para>
&MIME; types are a way of describing the contents of files.  You may be
used to using file extensions for that purpose, and you may know that on
&UNIX; systems the file extension often bear little or no relation to the
contents of the file.  On the other hand, it may be vital - for example,
some implementations of <command>gunzip</command> won't operate on files
that aren't named <literal role="extension">.gz</literal>.
</para>

<para>
&MIME; types naturally make use of filename patterns, but not
necessarily the extensions - you can set up any filename pattern you
like.  For example, if you always want to open any files relating to a
particular client with &kate;,  and you make a habit of naming the files
with the client's name at the beginning so that they naturally group in
the &konqueror; window, then you can set up a filename pattern that
matches <literal>^<replaceable>clientname</replaceable>*</literal>.
Then any files that have <replaceable>clientname</replaceable> at the
beginning (the ^ character means <quote>starts with...</quote>) and
without any regard to the rest of the filename. 
</para>
</note>

</sect1>

</chapter>
<chapter id="credits">
<title>Credits</title>
<sect1 id="authors">
<title>Authors</title>

<itemizedlist>
<listitem><para>Matthias Ettrich
<email>ettrich@kde.org</email></para></listitem>
<listitem><para>Kalle Dahlheimer <email>kalle@kde.org</email></para></listitem>
<listitem><para>Torben Weiss <email>weis@kde.org</email></para></listitem>
<listitem><para>Bernd Wuebben <email>wuebben@kde.org</email></para></listitem>
<listitem><para>Stephen Schaub <email>sschaub@bju.edu</email> -
Editor</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>Robert Williams <email>rwilliams@kde.org</email> -
Editor</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>Lauri Watts <email>lauri@kde.org</email> - Additional
post &kde; 2.x material</para></listitem>
</itemizedlist>

<!-- TRANS:CREDIT_FOR_TRANSLATORS -->

&underFDL;

</sect1>
</chapter>
</book>

<!--
Local Variables:
mode: sgml
sgml-omittag: nil
sgml-shorttag: t
End:
-->

