<chapter id="contact-the-kde-team">
<chapterinfo>
<date>2000-10-14</date>
<releaseinfo>1.94.00</releaseinfo>
</chapterinfo>
<title>Contact the KDE team</title>
<anchor id="contact"/>

<sect1 id="contact-mailinglists">
<title>Mailing lists</title>

<para> KDE has several mailing lists up. See below for the current list. Older
articles can be found in the <ulink url="http://lists.kde.org">mailing list
archive</ulink>.</para>

<variablelist>

<varlistentry>
<term><email>kde-request@kde.org</email> - KDE</term>
<listitem><para>For general discussion</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><email>kde-announce-request@kde.org</email> - kde-announce</term>
<listitem><para>Announcements of new KDE applications</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><email>kde-user-request@kde.org</email> - kde-user</term>
<listitem><para>Users help each other</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><email>kde-devel-request@kde.org</email> - kde-devel</term>
<listitem><para>For developers.


</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><email>kde-licensing-request@kde.org</email> - kde-licensing</term>
<listitem><para>Discussion of licensing issues</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><email>kde-look-request@kde.org</email> - kde-look</term>
<listitem><para>Discussing "look'n'feel issues"</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><email>kde-artists-request@kde.org</email> - kde-artists</term>
<listitem><para>Creating icons and other artwork</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><email>kde-doc-english-request@kde.org</email> - kde-doc-english</term>
<listitem><para>For people interested in writing documentation for KDE.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>


<varlistentry>
<term><email>kde-i18n-doc-request@kde.org</email> - kde-18n-doc</term>
<listitem><para>Internationalization and documentation issues</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><ulink url="http://i18n.kde.org/teams/">http://i18n.kde.org/teams/"</ulink></term>
<listitem><para>For localised information, which may include user email lists
and websites, check the translation teams page at the above
URL.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>


</variablelist>

<para>To subscribe: Click on one of the above links and type
<userinput>subscribe <replaceable>your-email-address</replaceable></userinput>
in the subject of the message. Please write your real email address instead of
the plain "<userinput><replaceable>your-email-address</replaceable></userinput>"
words. Leave the body of the message empty. Do not include a signature or other
stuff which might confuse the mail server which processes your request.</para>

<para>To unsubscribe: Click on one of the above links and type
<userinput>unsubscribe <replaceable>your-email-address</replaceable></userinput>
in the subject of the message. Please replace
"<userinput><replaceable>your-email-address</replaceable></userinput>" with the
email address you did use for the subscription. Leave the body of the message
empty. Do not include a signature or other stuff which might confuse the mail
server which processes your request.</para>

<note><para>The addresses listed above, are for <emphasis>subscribing and
unsubscribing only</emphasis>.  Once you have subscribed to a mailing list, you
will received a message telling you how to send messages to the mailing list,
and how to alter your mailing list options.</para>
<para>Please do not send messages intended to be posted to the mailing list to
the above addresses.</para></note>

<tip><para>Please do not use <abbrev>HTML</abbrev> to send your request because
it makes it difficult for our mail server to process your request. If the
subscription address is identical to the address you are posting from you may
omit the address in the subject line.</para></tip>

</sect1>

<sect1 id="contact-developers">
<title>Contacting the KDE developers</title>

<para>Contact addresses for developers can be found in the documentation of
their individual applications.</para>

</sect1>

<sect1 id="contact-official">
<title>Official Contacts</title>

<para>Please visit our <ulink
url="http://www.kde.org/representatives.html">Official Representatives</ulink>
page if you need to contact KDE in an official way. </para>

</sect1>

<sect1 id="contact-more-information">
<title>More information</title>

<para>Please find more information about KDE at <ulink
url="http://www.kde.org">http://www.kde.org</ulink>.</para>

</sect1>
</chapter>
<!-- Keep this comment at the end of the file
Local variables:
mode: sgml
sgml-omittag:t
sgml-shorttag:nil
sgml-namecase-general:t
sgml-general-insert-case:lower
sgml-always-quote-attributes:t
sgml-parent-document:index.docbook
End:
-->

