<chapter id="supporting-kde">
<chapterinfo>
<date>2000-10-02</date>
<releaseinfo>1.94.00</releaseinfo>
</chapterinfo>
<title>Supporting KDE</title>
<anchor id="support"/>

<sect1 id="supporting-kde-introduction">
<title>Supporting &kde;</title>

<para> 
If you are new to &kde;, the &kde; project might look like big
machinery to you. No doubt, &kde; is no longer a small
project. Nevertheless, it is very important to realize that it is easy
to <quote>make a difference</quote> in the &kde; world.
</para>

<para>
There is always a need for dedicated developers, graphic artists, sound
engineers. Consider jumping abord this exciting international project
and make yourself a name in the software world.</para>

<para>
Along the way you will make countless friends and aquaintances all over
the world and the satisfaction that stems from doing actual hands-on
work that will benefit uncountably many users world-wide as well as
seeing an unparalled project grow is hard to beat. Please consider
joining and supporting &kde; and hop abord this exciting journey torwads
a free and open alternative computing platform.  
</para>

</sect1>

<sect1 id="supporting-kde-get-started">
<title>How to get started</title>

<itemizedlist>

<listitem><para>
Subscribe to the <link linkend="contact">kde mailing lists</link>
that interest you.
</para></listitem>

<listitem><para>
Read the <ulink url="http://lists.kde.org">mailing list</ulink> archives in
order to get a feel for &kde; development.
</para></listitem>

<listitem><para>
Learn how to program using the &kde; applicaton framework and join the
friendly &kde; developers' community.
</para></listitem>

</itemizedlist>

</sect1>

<sect1 id="supporting-kde-financial-support">
<title>Supporting financially</title>

<para> 
The &kde; team is working very hard on providing you with the
best desktop available for the &UNIX; operating system. &kde; is
available for free and will always be available for free, including each
and every line of its source code for everyone to modify and
distribute. If you enjoy and use &kde; please consider supporting the
&kde; Project financially.  &kde; is in constant need of funds in order
to finance its operations.  
</para>

<para> 
If your busy schedule or skills do not permit you to be actively
involved in &kde; development please consider supporting &kde;
financially by remitting a donation to: 
</para>

<literallayout>
Matthias Hoelzer
KDE-Verein i.G.
Account-Nr. 2798296

Staedtische Sparkasse Wuerzburg
Hofstrasse 9
97070 Wuerzburg
Germany
BLZ 790 500 00
SWIFT-Address: BYLA DE 77
</literallayout>

<para>
Please contact Matthias Hoelzer <email>hoelzer@kde.org</email>in case
you have any questions. 
</para>

<para>
Your contribution is very much appreciated. Thank you!
</para>

</sect1>
</chapter>

