<!--
<?xml version="1.0" ?>
<!DOCTYPE chapter PUBLIC "-//KDE//DTD DocBook XML V4.1-Based Variant V1.0//EN"
 "dtd/kdex.dtd">
-->
 
<chapter id="configure">
<title>Configuring &kde;</title>

<qandaset>
<qandaentry>
<question>
<para>How do I set the language used by &kde;?</para>
</question>
<answer>
<para>There are two ways to set the language &kde; uses in the
messages it will display:</para>
<variablelist>
<varlistentry><term>Using the <application>&kde; Control Center</application></term>
<listitem><para>Fire up the <application>&kde; Control Center</application> and select
<guimenu>Personalization</guimenu> followed by <guimenuitem>Country
and Language</guimenuitem>.  You can select your language and location
here.  If &kde; cannot find a translation in the first language
chosen, it will fall back on the default language.  This is usually
(American) English by default.</para>
<note><para>Using the <application>&kde; Control Center</application> is the preferred way of choosing
languages in &kde;.</para></note></listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry><term>Using the <envar>LANG</envar> environment variable</term>
<listitem><para>The second method uses the standard locale setting on
your system.  To change the language, simply set the environment
variable <envar>LANG</envar> accordingly.  For example, if your shell 
is <application>bash</application>, execute <command>export
LANG=de</command> to set German as the language used.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>
</answer>
</qandaentry>

<qandaentry>
<question>
<para>Is there any keyboard switcher for international keyboards for
&kde;?</para>
</question>
<answer>
<para>
Yes you can configure it using the <application>&kde; Control Center</application>
<guimenu>Peripherals</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Keyboard</guimenuitem>
<guimenuitem>Layout</guimenuitem> configuration dialog.
</para>
</answer>
</qandaentry>

<qandaentry>
<question>
<para>How do I replace the standard &Linux; text login screen with the
&kde; login screen?</para>
</question>
<answer>
<para>First, you need to change to the "xdm runlevel" (runlevel 5 on
&RedHat; systems, 3 on S.u.S.E.) by editing your
<filename>/etc/inittab</filename> file.  In the file, you should have
a line saying <userinput>id:3:initdefault:</userinput>.  Change it to
<userinput>id:5:initdefault:</userinput>.  Now at the end of the file,
comment out the following line:
<userinput>x:5:respawn:/usr/bin/X11/xdm -nodaemon</userinput> and
replace it with
<userinput>x:5:respawn:<replaceable>/opt/kde/</replaceable>bin/kdm
-nodaemon</userinput>.
<note><para>The location of &kdm; may differ on your
system.</para></note></para>
<para>For changes to take effect immediately, type <command>init
5</command> (for &RedHat; systems) at the shell prompt. 
<caution><para>It is risky to initiate a graphical login without
checking beforehand whether it works.  If it fails to work, you would
be in for a hard time getting back....</para></caution></para>
</answer>
</qandaentry>

<qandaentry>
<question>

<para>I would like to click the &LMB; anywhere on the
desktop and have the <guimenu>K</guimenu> menu displayed.</para>
</question>
<answer>
<para>Open the <application>&kde; Control Center</application> and choose
<menuchoice><guisubmenu>Look and
Feel</guisubmenu><guisubmenu>Desktop</guisubmenu>
<guisubmenu>General</guisubmenu></menuchoice>.  You can now choose the
behavior of mouse clicks on the desktop.  To have the
<guimenu>K</guimenu> menu open from a single &LMB;
click, change the entry labeled <guilabel>Left button</guilabel> to
say <guilabel>Application Menu</guilabel>.</para>
</answer>
</qandaentry>

<!-- Not KDE -->
<!--
<qandaentry>
<question>
<para>How do I use the three extra keys on my &Windows; keyboard in
&kde;?</para>
</question>
<answer>
<para>You may have to configure your X server via
<command>xmodmap</command> to bind the keycodes of the &Windows; keys
to useful X key symbols (<command>xev</command> is your friend!).</para>
<para>First, create a file <filename>$<envar>HOME</envar>/.Xmodmap</filename>
containing the entries:</para>
<screen>
keycode 115=F13
keycode 117=F15
</screen>
<para>Then run <command>xmodmap ~/.Xmodmap</command>.  This sets
the <keycap>Start</keycap> key to emit <keysym>F13</keysym> and the
<keycap>Windows</keycap> key to emit <keysym>F15</keysym>.  Next, fire
up the <application>&kde; Control Center</application> and select <menuchoice><guimenu>Shortcut
Keys</guimenu><guimenuitem>Global Shortcut</guimenuitem></menuchoice>.
Set <guilabel>Pop-up system menu</guilabel> to <keysym>F13</keysym>
and <guilabel>Window operations menu</guilabel> to
<keysym>F15</keysym>.  That is it.
<note><para>The numbers 115 and 117 may depend on the keyboard.  If
you are not sure, please check using <command>xev</command>.  In
addition, the above procedure requires &kde; 1.1 and above.</para>
<para>&kikbd; is able to do this too, but keymaps have to be edited.
The advantage of &kikbd; is that one can choose whether to use these
mappings on several custom keymaps and have them hotswappable.</para>
<para>It would be interesting to make a little script that will
automatically do the keymap modifications on demand.  &kikbd; should
be able to read/understand user-side keymap files.</para></note></para>
</answer>
</qandaentry>
-->

<qandaentry>
<question>
<para>Where do I find information regarding &kde; themes?</para>
</question>
<answer>
<para>Go see <ulink
url="http://kde.themes.org/">http://kde.themes.org/</ulink>.</para>
</answer>
</qandaentry>

<qandaentry>
<question>
<para>How do I change &MIME; Types?</para>
</question>
<answer>
<para>If you are using &konqueror;, do this instead: first, open a
&konqueror; window and choose
<menuchoice><guimenu>Edit</guimenu><guimenuitem>File
Type</guimenuitem></menuchoice>.  Find the type you want to change
(<abbrev>e.g.</abbrev> text/english or image/gif), click the &RMB;,
select <guilabel>General</guilabel>, and set the application
preference order to whatever you want.</para>
</answer>
</qandaentry>

<qandaentry>
<question>
<para>&kde; (&kdm;) does not read my
<filename>.bash_profile</filename>!</para>
</question>
<answer>
<para>Well, <application>xdm</application> (and &kdm;) does not run a login shell, so
<filename>.profile</filename>, <filename>.bash_profile</filename>,
<abbrev>etc.</abbrev> are not sourced.  When the user logs in, <application>xdm</application> runs
<command>Xstartup</command> as root and then
<command>Xsession</command> as user.  So the normal practice is to add
statements in <filename>Xsession</filename> to source the user profile.
Please edit your <filename>Xsession</filename> and
<filename>.xsession</filename> files.</para>
</answer>
</qandaentry>

<qandaentry>
<question>
<para>How do I use &TrueType; fonts in &kde;?</para>
</question>
<answer>
<para>You need to install &TrueType; font support to your &X-Windows;.  Please
take a look at <ulink url="http://x.themes.org/">x.themes.org</ulink>
for the fonts, and <ulink
url="http://www.dcs.ed.ac.uk/home/jec/programs/xfsft/">xfsft:
&TrueType; Font Support For X11</ulink> or <ulink
url="http://X-TT.dsl.gr.jp/">X-&TrueType; Server Project Home
Page</ulink> for the font servers.</para>
<para>If you have a bunch of &TrueType; fonts from &Microsoft;
&Windows;, edit the <filename>XF86Config</filename> file to get the fonts from the font
folder.  Then just tell &kde; to use these new fonts with the font
administrator utility.</para>
</answer>
</qandaentry>

<qandaentry>
<question>
<para>Is it possible to enter, show and work with the Euro Symbol in
&kde;?</para>
</question>
<answer>
<para>Yes and no.  For details, look here: <ulink url="http://www.koffice.org/kword/euro.phtml">http://www.koffice.org/kword/euro.phtml
</ulink>.</para>
</answer>
</qandaentry>
</qandaset>
</chapter>
