<!--
<?xml version="1.0" ?>
<!DOCTYPE chapter PUBLIC "-//KDE//DTD DocBook XML V4.1-Based Variant V1.0//EN"
 "dtd/kdex.dtd">
-->

<chapter id="desktop">
<title>The desktop</title>

<qandaset>
<qandaentry>
<question>
<para>How do I add an application to the desktop?</para>
</question>
<answer>
<para>Just chose the wanted application in the <guimenu>K</guimenu> menu and drag and drop it to the Desktop. Thats it. 
</para> 
<para>For applications not listed in the <guimenu>K</guimenu> menu, 
use the &RMB; on the desktop and choose <guimenuitem>Create New</guimenuitem>
<guimenuitem>Link to Application</guimenuitem> and fill in the configuration for the application you want to link to.
</para>
</answer>
</qandaentry>

<qandaentry>
<question>
<para>How do I mount/unmount a device from the desktop?</para>
</question>
<answer>
<para>First, make sure you are allowed to <command>mount</command>/<command>umount</command> the according device as a user. 
</para>
<para>Then you can add any device via &RMB; on the desktop and then choosing <guimenuitem>Create New</guimenuitem>.  
</para>
</answer>
</qandaentry>


<qandaentry>
<question>
<para>Where are the icons kept?</para>
</question>
<answer>
<para>The icons can be found only in <filename
class="directory">$<envar>KDEDIR</envar>/share/icons</filename> or <filename
class="directory">$<envar>HOME</envar>/.kde/share/icons</filename> or
<filename class="directory">$<envar>HOME</envar>/.kde2/share/icons</filename>.  To use icons
stored in other locations, you must either copy them into one of the
above-mentioned fixed &kde; locations or make symlinks.</para>
</answer>
</qandaentry>

<qandaentry>
<question>
<para>How do I use the mouse scroll wheel in &kde;?</para>
</question>
<answer>
<para>Mouse wheel support comes with &Qt; 2.0 and above, so &kde; based on
that will automagically support the use of the mouse scroll wheel.</para>
</answer>
</qandaentry>

<qandaentry>
<question>
<para>Why can't I get system sound to work, like for opening
windows?</para>
</question>
<answer>
<para>System sound currently does not work on non-<acronym>FreeBSD</acronym> and
non-&Linux; systems.  This is being worked on.  If you use 
<acronym>FreeBSD</acronym> or &Linux;, you have found a bug, so please report it.</para>
</answer>
</qandaentry>

<qandaentry>
<question>
<para>How do I launch applications in a particular desktop?</para>
</question>
<answer>
<para>&kde; comes with a program called &kstart;.
To start <application>Mozilla</application> on the second desktop and then activate it use:
<command>kstart <option>"netscape" -desktop
2 -activate</option></command>.</para>
<para>Please read <command>kstart <option>--help-all</option></command> for more magic
done by &kstart; (and there is quite some ;)
</para>
</answer>
</qandaentry>

<!-- Commented this out, because IMHO this belongs not in the KDE FAQ -->
<!--
<qandaentry>
<question>
<para>I have played with the fonts section in the &kde; Control Center
but the fonts are still way too small.  What can I do?</para>
</question>
<answer>
<para>Many users use the 75 <acronym>dpi</acronym> fonts as the default.  If you have
installed the 100 <acronym>dpi</acronym> fonts, make sure your <filename>XF86Config</filename> file has
those fonts in the path before the 75 <acronym>dpi</acronym> fonts.  Here is a step-by-step procedure on how to do it:</para>
<procedure>
<step performance="required"><para>Open <filename>/etc/Xll/XF86Config</filename> using your
favorite editor.</para></step>
<step performance="required"><para>Near the top of the file is a several-row listing of fonts:
type1, speedo, <abbrev>etc.</abbrev>, and at the bottom there are two entries: 75dpi
and 100dpi.  Reverse their order.  And while you are at it, move the
Type 1 fonts to the bottom of the list (or somewhere below the 75 and
100 <acronym>dpi</acronym> fonts).  That makes an improvement
too!</para></step>
</procedure>
</answer>
</qandaentry>
-->


<qandaentry>
<question>
<para>Where do I save my files if I want them to appear directly on
the desktop?</para>
</question>
<answer>
<para><filename class="directory">$<envar>HOME</envar>/Desktop</filename>.  You might
need to refresh your desktop after you have saved your files.</para>
</answer>
</qandaentry>
</qandaset>
</chapter>
