<!--
<?xml version="1.0" ?>
<!DOCTYPE chapter PUBLIC "-//KDE//DTD DocBook XML V4.1-Based Variant V1.0//EN"
 "dtd/kdex.dtd">
-->

<chapter id="filemanager">
<title>The file manager</title>

<para>The file manager of choice &kde; is &konqueror;.  The
&konqueror; home page is located at 
<ulink url="http://www.konqueror.org">http://www.konqueror.org</ulink> where
a &konqueror;-specific <acronym>FAQ</acronym>
can be found.</para>

<qandaset>
<qandaentry>
<question>
<para>How do I use &konqueror; as a web browser with proxy?</para>
</question>
<answer>
<para>&konqueror; can be used with &HTTP; and &FTP; proxies.  
To set up the proxy server in &konqueror;, just select
<menuchoice><guimenu>Settings</guimenu><guisubmenu>Configure &konqueror;...</guisubmenu></menuchoice>
from the &konqueror; menu and go to the <guilabel>Proxies</guilabel> tab.</para>
</answer>
</qandaentry>

<qandaentry>
<question>
<para>How can I change the appearance of a directory in
&konqueror;?</para>
</question>
<answer>
<para>When displaying a directory,&konqueror; looks for
a hidden file called <filename>.directory</filename> inside the
directory.  You can create such a file yourself to modify the way in
which the directory is displayed.  The file is simply a <filename>.desktop</filename> file. 
 For example:</para>
<screen>
[Desktop Entry]
Type=Directory
Icon=trashcan_full
EmptyIcon=trashcan_empty
Name=Trash
Name[af]=GEMORS
...
Name[no_NY]=Papirkorg
...
Comment=Contains removed files

</screen><para>This is the file used to describe the Trash directory.  It
changes the icon used to display the directory and sets the (displayed)
name of the directory according to the national language</para>
<para>For the directories that build up the <guimenu>K</guimenu> menu, you can
also use &kmenuedit; to change the appearance.</para>
</answer>
</qandaentry>

<qandaentry>
<question>
<para>How can I do non-anonymous &FTP; transfers with &konqueror;?</para>
</question>
<answer>
<para>Normally, if you enter a &URL; like
<userinput>ftp://<replaceable>ftp.somehost.com</replaceable></userinput>, 
&konqueror; will attempt an
anonymous login to the &FTP; server.  If you want to login as a
particular user, enter a &URL; like
<userinput>ftp://<replaceable>username@ftp.somehost.com</replaceable></userinput>
instead.  &konqueror; will ask for
your password and connect to the server.</para>
</answer>
</qandaentry>

<qandaentry>
<question>
<para>What are <option>%i</option> and <option>%m</option> in the
Execute line?</para>
</question>
<answer>
<para>They are used by all &kde; applications (since they are
implemented in <classname>KApplication</classname> and all good &kde;
programs create a <classname>KApplication</classname> object before
they even look at the command line arguments).</para>
<para>A standard line for a &kde; application looks like this:
<command>foo <option>... %i %m -caption \"%c\"</option></command>.
Pretty confusing, but it has been designed in that way so that it can 
integrate legacy, non-&kde; applications as smoothly as possible.
&konqueror; when executing the line above will extend the
command to <command>foo <option>-icon something.png -miniicon
something_mini.png -caption \"The Foo\"</option></command>.  Both the
icon and the mini-icon as well as "The Foo" are properties defined in
the <filename>.desktop</filename> file.  If the icons are not defined, they simply default
to the executable name "foo".</para>
<para>This way a user can change these things in &kmenuedit; for his
or her applications.  <option>-caption</option> is important, because
no user will accept that the menu item
<guimenuitem>Editor</guimenuitem> starts something called
<guilabel>kedit-0.9pl4-build47</guilabel>.  Instead, he expects a
window called <guilabel>Editor</guilabel>.  Furthermore these names
are localized, <abbrev>i.e.</abbrev> an American user launches
<guimenuitem>CD-Player</guimenuitem> and gets a window called
<guilabel>CD-Player</guilabel> while a German user launches
<guimenuitem>CD Spieler</guimenuitem> and gets a window called
<guilabel>CD-Spieler</guilabel>.</para>
</answer>
</qandaentry>

<qandaentry>
<question>
<para>How do I specify the startup directory for &konqueror;?</para>
</question>
<answer>
<para>&RMB; click on the &konqueror; icon and choose <guimenuitem>Preferences</guimenuitem>.  Under the <guilabel>Execute</guilabel> tab you would probably find something
like <command>kfmclient openProfile filemanagement</command>; just append
<filename class="directory">file:/whereever/you/want</filename> with the dir  
you would &konqueror; like to start.</para>
</answer>
</qandaentry>

<qandaentry>
<question id="nsbookmark">
<para>How do I import &Netscape; bookmarks?</para>
</question>
<answer>
<para>There is no need to import anything at all. &Netscape; bookmarks are
automatically available under the <guimenu>Bookmarks</guimenu> menu in
&konqueror; with no configuration on your part necessary. The <application>Bookamr Editor</application> is able to convert &Netscape; bookmarks to the format used by
&konqueror;, if you want this.</para>
</answer>
</qandaentry>

<qandaentry>
<question>
<para>How do I fool a site into believing
&konqueror; is &Netscape; or some other
browsers?</para>
</question>
<answer>
<para>Fire up the <application>&kde; Control
Center</application> and select <menuchoice><guimenu>Web
Browsing</guimenu><guimenuitem>User Agent</guimenuitem></menuchoice>.
Add the desired user agent accordingly.</para>
</answer>
</qandaentry>

<qandaentry>
<question>
<para>How do I configure &konqueror; to run
&Java; applets?</para>
</question>
<answer>
<para>Choose
<menuchoice><guimenu>Settings</guimenu><guisubmenu>Configure &konqueror;</guisubmenu><guimenuitem>&konqueror; Browser</guimenuitem></menuchoice>
from &konqueror;'s menubar.  Note that you
have to be viewing a web page for the <guimenu>Settings</guimenu> menu
not to be greyed out. If it doesn't work please check the
<ulink url="http://www.konqueror.org/konq-java.html">Konqueror + Java HOWTO</ulink>.</para>
</answer>
</qandaentry>

<qandaentry>
<question>
<para>Why can't &konqueror; render
&GIF; images?</para>
</question>
<answer>
<para>It is because you did not enable &GIF; support
in &Qt;.  Please see <xref linkend="gif"/> for more details.</para>
</answer>
</qandaentry>

<qandaentry>
<question>
<para>How do I rename files?</para>
</question>
<answer>
<para>Simply right click on the file and select
<guimenuitem>Rename</guimenuitem> or click once on an already selected file.</para>
</answer>
</qandaentry>
</qandaset>
</chapter>
