<!--
<?xml version="1.0" ?>
<!DOCTYPE chapter PUBLIC "-//KDE//DTD DocBook XML V4.1-Based Variant V1.0//EN"
 "dtd/kdex.dtd">
-->

<chapter id="getting-kde">
<title>Getting &kde;</title>

<qandaset>
<qandaentry>
<question id="where-to-get-kde">
<para>Where do I get &kde;?</para>
</question>
<answer>
<para>The main distribution site for &kde; is 
<ulink url="ftp://ftp.kde.org">ftp.kde.org</ulink>.  However, this site is
often under heavy load, so you might prefer one of the 
<ulink url="http://www.kde.org/mirrors.html"> &kde; mirror
sites</ulink>.</para>
</answer>
</qandaentry>

<qandaentry>
<question>
<para> Are there &Linux; distributions that include &kde;?</para>
</question>
<answer>
<para>Yes, major &Linux; distributions already ship &kde;.  As
building a distribution takes some time, they might not always contain
the latest version, but for a start or to avoid downloading from the
Internet, they do provide a good starting point.
</para>
<para>You can find an up-to-date list of distributions that ship
with &kde; <ulink url="http://www.kde.org/kdeships.html">here</ulink>.
</para>

</answer>
</qandaentry>

<qandaentry>
<question>
<para>What is the current version?</para>
</question>
<answer>
<para>Currently, the latest stable version is 2.2.1</para>
<para>The <ulink
url="http://www.kde.org/info/2.2.1.html">&kde; 2.2.1 Info
Page</ulink> contains a lot of information specific to this
release.</para>
</answer>
</qandaentry>

<qandaentry>
<question>
<para>Where do I find &kde; snapshots?</para>
</question>
<answer>
<para>You can get the latest snapshots from <ulink
url="ftp://ftp.kde.org/pub/kde/unstable/CVS/snapshots">ftp://ftp.kde.org/pub/kde/unstable/CVS/snapshots</ulink>.
You might also want to consider setting up your own <acronym>CVS</acronym> client in order to
maintain the latest snapshot at all times.  Please refer to <ulink
url="http://www.kde.org/anoncvs.html">Anonymous <acronym>CVS</acronym> and &kde;</ulink> for further
information.
</para>

</answer>
</qandaentry>

<qandaentry>
<question id="where-to-get-qt">
<para>Where do I get &Qt;?</para>
</question>
<answer>
<para>&Qt; is a product of the Norwegian company Trolltech.  You can
always get the latest &Qt; version from their 
<ulink url="ftp://ftp.trolltech.com">&FTP; server</ulink>.</para>
<para>
And with most up-to-date &Linux; distributions, &Qt; is already
included.  Please see <xref linkend="prerequisites"/> for the version
of &Qt; you need.</para>
</answer>
</qandaentry>

<!--throw this into the glossary as well? ;)  maybe not.-->
<qandaentry>
<question id="qt">
<para>What is &Qt;, by the way?</para>
</question>
<answer>
<para>&Qt; is a C++-based class library to build user interfaces. It
also includes many utility classes like string classes and classes
to handle input and output. It
provides most of the widgets you will see in a &kde; application:
menus, buttons, sliders, <abbrev>etc.</abbrev>  &Qt; is a cross-platform library that
allows you to write code that will compile on &UNIX; systems as well as
&Windows; and embedded devices.  You can learn more about &Qt; at <ulink
url="http://www.trolltech.com">http://www.trolltech.com</ulink>.</para>
</answer>
</qandaentry>
</qandaset>
</chapter>
