<!--
<?xml version="1.0" ?>
<!DOCTYPE chapter PUBLIC "-//KDE//DTD DocBook XML V4.1-Based Variant V1.0//EN"
 "dtd/kdex.dtd">
-->

<chapter id="applications">
<title>&kde; applications</title>

<qandaset>
<qandaentry>
<question>
<para>&kppp;</para>
</question>
<answer>
<para>Many &kde; users report problems using &kppp;.  But before you
complain about &kppp;, make sure you have already checked the
following:</para>
<itemizedlist>
<listitem><para>Can you dialup to your <acronym>ISP</acronym> without using &kppp;?  If you cannot, then perhaps &kppp; is not the culprit after
all.</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>Have you gone through the &kppp; documentation at
least three times and follow its instructions and trouble-shooting
suggestions?</para></listitem>
</itemizedlist>
<para>The &kppp; documentation can be accessed through the 
<application>&kde; Help Center</application> or going directly to the documentation directory, usually
<filename
class="directory">$<envar>KDEDIR</envar>/share/doc/HTML/default/kppp</filename>.
In addition, there is a web page "How to set up kppp with ISPs in the
UK" at <ulink
url="http://www.kppp-archive.freeserve.co.uk/">http://www.kppp-archive.freeserve.co.uk/</ulink>.
 Last but not least, the &kppp; homepage is at <ulink
 url="http://devel-home.kde.org/~kppp/">http://devel-home.kde.org/~kppp/</ulink>.</para>
<para>Now, if you still encounter problems, here's what might help you
solve them:</para>
<variablelist>
<varlistentry><term>How do I change the &MTU; setting in &kppp;?</term>
<listitem><para>Open up the &kppp; dialog box and select
<guibutton>Setup</guibutton>.  Choose an existing account and click
<guibutton>Edit</guibutton>, or <guibutton>New</guibutton> to create a
new dialup account.  Select the <guilabel>Dial</guilabel> tab and
click <guibutton>Arguments</guibutton>.  Type what you want to change
in the Argument textbox (<abbrev>e.g.</abbrev> <userinput>mtu 296</userinput>) and
click <guibutton>Add</guibutton>.  When you are satisfied, click
<guibutton>Close</guibutton>.</para>
<para>To check whether the options "took", do one of the followings:</para>
<itemizedlist>
<listitem><para>In a terminal window, run <command>/sbin/ifconfig
ppp0</command> and look at the reported &MTU; in the output.  It
should match your request.</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>Add <option>debug</option> and <option>kdebug</option>
(each on a separate line) to your
<filename>/etc/ppp/options</filename> file and restart your
&PPP; session.  You will find debugging messages in
<filename>/var/log/messages</filename>, including &MRU; and &MTU;
settings.</para></listitem>
</itemizedlist>
<para>If you want, the &MRU; and &MTU; settings can be added to the
<filename>options</filename> file, one complete setting per line, no
quotes or dashes.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term>&kppp; connects at a slower speed than
normal.</term>
<listitem><para>The following might do the trick:</para>
<itemizedlist>
<listitem><para>Try executing <command>setserial
spd_hi</command>.</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>The default &MTU; value is 1500,
which maybe too large 
for a dialup connection.  Try changing it to a smaller value like
<userinput>296</userinput>
or <userinput>576</userinput>.</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>Check in your <filename
class="directory">$<envar>HOME</envar>/.kde/share/config</filename> for the 
<filename>kppprc</filename>.  Ensure the correct modem speed is
actually defined there.</para></listitem>
</itemizedlist></listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>
</answer>
</qandaentry>

<qandaentry>
<question>
<para>&konsole;</para>
</question>
<answer>
<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term>How do I page-up or page-down?</term>
<listitem><para>Use <keycombo action="simul">
<keycap>Shift</keycap> <keycap>Pg Up</keycap></keycombo>
and <keycombo action="simul"><keycap>Shift</keycap><keycap>Pg
Dn</keycap></keycombo>.
</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term>How do I perform a simple "copy" from &konsole; to
anything else?</term>
<listitem><para>When I do a <command>ls</command>, first I select with
the mouse the desired text, press 
<keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>C</keycap></keycombo>,
then I make the target application active, point the mouse to the
relevant part and press <keycombo
action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>V</keycap></keycombo>.
Alternatively, highlight the text by dragging with the &LMB; down and
paste by clicking with the &MMB; (or both 
buttons if you have 3 button emulation set and you are using a two
button mouse).</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>
</answer>
</qandaentry>

<qandaentry>
<question>
<para>&kmail;</para>
</question>
<answer>
<para>&kmail; has its own home page at <ulink
url="http://kmail.kde.org">http://kmail.kde.org</ulink> where an
<acronym>FAQ</acronym> is available.</para>
</answer>
</qandaentry>

<!-- kbiff is dead ?? -->
<!--
<qandaentry>
<question>
<para>&kbiff;</para>
</question>
<answer>
<para>&kbiff; is a mail notification utility and its home page is at
<ulink
url="http://www.granroth.org/kbiff">http://www.granroth.org/kbiff</ulink>.</para>
<variablelist>
<varlistentry><term>How can one instance of &kbiff; monitor two
mailboxes and take the appropriate action when new messages arrive?</term>
<listitem><para>Are you getting many messages in both mailboxes?  If
so, it would be better to use two instances to monitor them.  If not,
then go to the <guilabel>Mailbox</guilabel> tab and click on the little
mailbox icon.  This will create another mailbox in that instance.
Now, whenever either of them gets new mail, &kbiff; will do all of its
new mail stuff.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>
</answer>
</qandaentry>
-->

</qandaset>
</chapter>
