<!-- if you want to validate this file separately, uncomment this prolog:

<?xml version="1.0" ?>
<!DOCTYPE chapter PUBLIC "-//KDE//DTD DocBook XML V4.1-Based Variant V1.0//EN"
 "dtd/kdex.dtd">

-->

<chapter id="not-kde">
<title>Not really &kde;-related, but frequently asked nevertheless
:-)</title>

<qandaset>
<qandaentry>
<question>
<para>How do I change the screen resolution?</para>
</question>
<answer>
<para>Use <keycombo
action="simul">&Ctrl;&Alt;<keycap>+</keycap></keycombo> and <keycombo
action="simul">&Ctrl;&Alt;<keycap>-</keycap></keycombo> to cycle among
the resolutions you have defined in <filename>XF86Config</filename> (maybe under
<filename class="directory">/etc/X11</filename>; poke around first).
If you prefer to get your hands dirty, you can always edit the file
directly.  By placing your favorite resolution at the beginning (or
making it the only one listed), the &X-Windows; will always start up with that
resolution.
<caution><para>Always make a backup copy of your <filename>XF86Config</filename> file
<emphasis>before</emphasis> you start editing it.  Errors in this file
can render your &X-Windows; unusable.</para></caution>
<note><para>These instructions are only valid if you are running
version 3.3.x of the XFree86 server.  If you are running XFree86 4.x,
you must consult with the <ulink url="http://xfree.org">XFree86(TM):
Home Page</ulink>.</para></note></para>
</answer>
</qandaentry>

<qandaentry>
<question>
<para>How do I change the color depth?</para>
</question>
<answer>
<para>AFAIK, there is no way you can do it on the fly.  You can either
start the &X-Windows; using <command>startx <option> -bpp
<replaceable>number</replaceable></option></command> where
<replaceable>number</replaceable> can be 8, 16, 24, or 32 depending on
the depth you want, or if you are using
<application>xdm</application>/&kdm;, you
have to edit 
<filename>/etc/X11/xdm/Xservers</filename> (may vary) by putting
<userinput>:0 local /usr/X11R6/bin/X -bpp 16</userinput> for color
depth 16.</para>
<para>Alternatively, you can edit the <filename>XF86Config</filename> file and add a line
like <userinput>DefaultColorDepth
<replaceable>number</replaceable></userinput> to Section "Screen".
The next time you start X, it will run with the newly-configured color
depth.</para>
</answer>
</qandaentry>

<qandaentry>
<question>
<para>What can I do if I am using a 2-button mouse?</para>
</question>
<answer>
<para>Go buy a 3-button one, or use third button emulation.  The third
button is emulated by pressing both the &LMB; and the &RMB; 
together.  You would need to enable <option>Emulate3Buttons</option>
in your <filename>XF86Config</filename> file. </para> 
</answer>
</qandaentry>

<qandaentry>
<question>
<para>What is a "sticky" window?</para>
</question>
<answer>
<para>In a virtual desktop environment with multiple virtual desktops, a
"sticky" window will stay put on the screen when you switch between
desktops, as if sticking to the glass of the screen.
<application>Xclock</application> is a typical candidate for sticking,
as you need to run only one instance of it, and it always stays with
you. </para>
</answer>
</qandaentry>

<qandaentry>
<question>
<para>How do I replace the "X" mouse pointer with an arrow?</para>
</question>
<answer>
<para>The various types of cursor available in X are defined in
<filename class="headerfile">X11/cursorfont.h</filename>.  You can
change it using <command>xsetroot -cursor_name
<replaceable>name_of_cursor</replaceable></command>.  For example, I
have the following in my <filename>.Xclients</filename>:</para>
<screen>
xsetroot -cursor_name left_ptr
</screen>
<para>This will create the common left-angled pointer.  To see other
alternatives, type <command>xfd -fn cursor</command>.  And of course,
do not forget that <command>man xsetroot</command> is your
friend.</para>
</answer>
</qandaentry>

<qandaentry>
<question>
<para>How do I extract/install diff files?</para>
</question>
<answer>
<para>To generate a context-diff suitable for patching, use
<command>diff -u <replaceable>old-file new-file</replaceable> &gt;
<replaceable>patchfile</replaceable></command>.  To apply the diff to
a file (<abbrev>i.e.</abbrev> "patch the file"), execute
<command>patch &lt; <replaceable>patchfile</replaceable></command>.</para> 
</answer>
</qandaentry>

<qandaentry>
<question>
<para>How do I get &Linux; to mount the floppy device both in dos and
ext2 floppies?</para>
</question>
<answer>
<para>Just specify the filesystem type as auto in
<filename>/etc/fstab</filename>.  Auto detection works fine for dos and
ext2.</para>
</answer>
</qandaentry>

<qandaentry>
<question>
<para>How do I start &kde; with the <keycap>Num Lock</keycap> on?</para>
</question>
<answer>
<para>Have you tried <command>man setleds</command>?  In addition, you
might want to edit your
<filename>$<envar>HOME</envar>/.Xmodmap</filename> and put the
following lines in:</para>
<screen>
! redefines numeric keypad to be used without NumLock
keycode 79 = 7
keycode 80 = 8
keycode 81 = 9

keycode 83 = 4
keycode 84 = 5
keycode 85 = 6

keycode 87 = 1
keycode 88 = 2
keycode 89 = 3

keycode 90 = 0
keycode 91 = comma
keycode 86 = plus

! deactivates NumLock key
keycode 77 =            
</screen>
<para>Other possible alternatives:</para>
<itemizedlist>
<listitem><para><application>xkeycaps</application>:
<mousebutton>right</mousebutton> clicking should allow edits.  May
have to do this as root.</para></listitem>
<listitem><para><command>man XF86Config</command> and look under
section Keyboard.</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>Install <application>NumLockX</application> which is
available from <ulink
url="http://dforce.sh.cvut.cz/~seli/en/numlockx">http://dforce.sh.cvut.cz/~seli/en/numlockx</ulink>.</para></listitem>
</itemizedlist>
</answer>
</qandaentry>

<qandaentry>
<question>
<para>How do I take window or desktop screenshots?</para>
</question>
<answer>
<para>Use &ksnapshot;.</para>
</answer>
</qandaentry>

<qandaentry>
<question>
<para>Is there a tool to make webpages?</para>
</question>
<answer>
<para>Yes, and there are a lot of them out there, including
<application>StarOffice</application>, <application>&Netscape; Composer</application>, and
<application>XEmacs</application>. 
There are also many &kde; applications.  To find the most current
list, go to <ulink url="http://apps.kde.com">APPS.&kde;.com: The
Latest in &kde; Applications</ulink> and search for <emphasis>web
development</emphasis>.  Try as many as possible and choose the one
most suitable to your needs.</para>
</answer>
</qandaentry>

<qandaentry>
<question>
<para>What do all those acronyms like AFAIK mean?</para>
</question>
<answer>
<para><screen>
AAMOF: as a matter of fact
AFAIK: as far as I know
AISE: as I see it
BFN: bye for now
BION: believe it or not
BRB: be right back
BTW: by the way
CMIIW: correct me if I am wrong
FUD: fear, uncertainty, and doubt
FWIW: for what it's worth
FYI: for your information
HTH: hope this helps
IIRC: if I recall correctly
IMHO: in my humble opinion
LOL: laughing out loud
MYOB: mind your own business
PITA: pain in the ass
ROTFL: rolling on the floor laughing
RTFM: read the fine manual
SOP: standard operating procedure
TIA: thanks in advance
YMMV: your mileage may vary
</screen></para>
</answer>
</qandaentry>
</qandaset>
</chapter>
