<!--
<?xml version="1.0" ?>
<!DOCTYPE chapter PUBLIC "-//KDE//DTD DocBook XML V4.1-Based Variant V1.0//EN"
 "dtd/kdex.dtd">
-->

<chapter id="tips">
<title>Useful tips</title>

<qandaset>
<qandaentry>
<question>
<para>Reading man pages in &kde;</para>
</question>
<answer>
<para>Pop up the minicli window (<keycombo
action="simul">&Alt;<keycap>F2</keycap></keycombo> by
default) and type
<command>man:<replaceable>command</replaceable></command>.  It
even unpacks on the fly if the man pages are gzipped.</para>
<para>Or you can use the <application>&kde; Help Center</application> if you are using &kde;
2.  Simply start the <application>&kde; Help Center</application> by clicking on the icon (the blue
book with the yellow key) on the toolbar.  Once the <application>&kde; Help Center</application> has
loaded, the window on the left will contain an entry called
<guilabel>Unix manual pages</guilabel>.  Click once on this entry, and
you can browse through all the installed manual pages on your
system.</para>
</answer>
</qandaentry>

<qandaentry>
<question>
<para>Move or resize windows quickly</para>
</question>
<answer>
<para>To move a window, use <keycombo
action="simul">&Alt;<mousebutton>left</mousebutton></keycombo> mouse
button.  <keycombo
action="simul">&Alt;<mousebutton>right</mousebutton></keycombo> mouse
button will resize the window.  Last but not least, <keycombo
action="simul">&Alt;<mousebutton>middle</mousebutton></keycombo> mouse button
raises/lowers the window. The <application>&kde; Control Center</application>
allows you to change these mouse bindings.</para>
</answer>
</qandaentry>

<qandaentry>
<question>
<para>Killing windows in &kde;</para>
</question>
<answer>
<para>There is a standard keybinding (<keycombo
action="simul">&Ctrl;&Alt;&Esc;</keycombo>) 
that gives you a skull/crossbones cursor.  Click that cursor on a
window to kill it.  The keybindings are viewable/changeable from the
<application>&kde; Control Center</application>.
<!-- fixme: use only if necessary; processes might remain --></para>
</answer>
</qandaentry>

<!-- fixme: how to do in KDE2.x
<qandaentry>
<question>
<para>Switching window managers on the fly in &kde; 1.x</para>
</question>
<answer>
<para>If you want to switch your window manager on the fly, type the
following into a terminal window: <command>kwmcom
go:<replaceable>blackbox</replaceable></command>.  This switches to
Blackbox, but you can substitute any window manager you like.</para>
</answer>
</qandaentry>
-->

</qandaset>
</chapter>
