<!--
<?xml version="1.0" ?>
<!DOCTYPE chapter PUBLIC "-//KDE//DTD DocBook XML V4.1-Based Variant V1.0//EN"
 "dtd/kdex.dtd">
-->



<chapter id="windowmanager">
<title>The window manager</title>

<para>The default window manager provided by &kde; is the K Window
Manager (&kwin;).  Please read "The
K Window Manager Handbook" (should be accessible from the
<application>&kde; Help Center</application>) for usage information.</para>

<qandaset>
<qandaentry>
<question>
<para>Are there keyboard shortcuts for &kwin; operations?</para>
</question>
<answer>
<para>Yes.  Please refer to "The K Window Manager Handbook" for the
list of shortcuts available.</para>
</answer>
</qandaentry>

<qandaentry>
<question>
<para>Can I define my own set of keyboard shortcuts?</para>
</question>
<answer>
<para>Yes.  Launch the
<application>&kde; Control Center</application> and select <menuchoice><guimenu>Look and
Feel</guimenu><guimenuitem>Key bindings</guimenuitem></menuchoice> to
configure window manager bindings like maximizing windows, <abbrev>etc.</abbrev> 
</para>
</answer>
</qandaentry>

<qandaentry>
<question>
<para>When I "iconify" a window, it disappears.  Where does it
go?</para>
</question>
<answer>
<para>With many &X-Windows; &GUI;, the minimize button (a little dot) will
erase the window that the program is running in and create, instead,
an icon on the desktop.  &kde; does not do this.  Instead, when a
window is iconified it is simply hidden (but the program is still
running).</para>
<para>There are a few ways to access "disappeared" windows:</para>
<itemizedlist>
<listitem>
<para>If you are running the taskbar part of &kicker;,
you can choose to have a list of tasks displayed on your desktop.
Iconified tasks will have their names surrounded by parentheses.</para>
</listitem>
<listitem>
<para>If you click the &MMB; on the root window (<abbrev>i.e.</abbrev>
the background of the desktop), &kwin; will give you a list
of all available tasks (and again, the names of the iconified tasks
will be bracketed).</para>
</listitem>
</itemizedlist>
</answer>
</qandaentry>

<qandaentry>
<question>
<para>How do I maximize windows only vertically or horizontally?</para>
</question>
<answer>
<para>Provided your window is not already maximized, clicking on the
maximize button with the &LMB;/&MMB;/&RMB; will
maximize fully/vertically/horizontally respectively.</para>
</answer>
</qandaentry>

<qandaentry>
<question>
<para>What is "shading" a window?</para>
</question>
<answer>
<para>By "shading" a window we mean "rolling up" a window leaving just
the title bar visible.  You can do this by double clicking on the
window title bar.</para>
</answer>
</qandaentry>

<qandaentry>
<question>
<para>Is it possible to have FVWM2-like shadow frameworks for the
placement of windows?</para>
</question>
<answer>
<para>Yes.  Run <application>&kde; Control Center</application> and select <guimenu>Look and Feel</guimenu>
followed by <guisubmenu>Window Behavior</guisubmenu> and finally
<guimenuitem>Advanced</guimenuitem>.  There is a dialog option that
allows you to set the placement policy you want.</para>
</answer>
</qandaentry>
</qandaset>
</chapter>
