<?xml version="1.0" ?>
<!DOCTYPE book PUBLIC "-//KDE//DTD DocBook XML V4.1-Based Variant V1.0//EN" "dtd/kdex.dtd" [
<!ENTITY kappname "&kate;"><!-- replace kapp here -->
<!ENTITY % addindex "IGNORE">
<!ENTITY % English "INCLUDE"><!-- change language only here -->
<!-- Do not define any other entities; instead, use the entities
from kde-genent.entities and $LANG/user.entities. -->
]>

<!-- The language must NOT be changed here. -->

<book lang="&language;">
<title>The &kate; Handbook</title>

<bookinfo>
<authorgroup>   
<author>
<firstname>Seth</firstname>
<surname>Rothberg</surname>
<affiliation>
<address><email>sethmr@bellatlantic.net</email></address>
</affiliation>
</author>
</authorgroup>

<!-- TRANS:ROLES_OF_TRANSLATORS -->

<copyright>
<year>2000</year>
<year>2001</year>
<holder>Seth M. Rothberg</holder>
</copyright>

<legalnotice>&FDLNotice;</legalnotice>

<!-- Date and version information of the documentation
Don't forget to include this last date and this last revision number, we
need them for translation coordination !
Please respect the format of the date (DD/MM/YYYY) and of the version
(V.MM.LL), it could be used by automation scripts.
Do NOT change these in the translation. -->

<date>2001-05-30</date>
<releaseinfo>1.00.00</releaseinfo>

<!-- Abstract about this handbook -->

<abstract>
<para>&kate; is a programmer's text editor for KDE 2.2 and above.</para>

<para>This handbook documents &kate; Version 1.0</para>
</abstract>

<!-- This is a set of Keywords for indexing by search engines.
Please at least include KDE, the KDE package it is in, the name
of your application, and a few relevant keywords. -->

<keywordset>
<keyword>KDE</keyword>
<keyword>kdebase</keyword>
<keyword>Kate</keyword>
<keyword>text</keyword>
<keyword>editor</keyword>
<keyword>programmer</keyword>
<keyword>programming</keyword>
<keyword>projects</keyword>
<keyword>MDI</keyword>
<keyword>Multi</keyword>
<keyword>Document</keyword>
<keyword>Interface</keyword>
<keyword>terminial</keyword>
<keyword>console</keyword>
</keywordset>

</bookinfo>

<chapter id="introduction">
<title>Introduction</title>

<para>
Welcome to &kate;, a programmer's text editor for &kde; version 2.2 and
above. Some of &kate;'s many features include configurable syntax
highlighting for languages ranging from C and C++ to
<acronym>HTML</acronym> to bash scripts, the ability to create and
maintain projects, a multiple document interface
(<acronym>MDI</acronym>), and a self-contained terminal emulator.
</para>

<para>
But &kate; is more than a programmer's editor. It's ability to open
several files at once makes it ideal for editing &UNIX;'s many
configuration files.  This document was written in &kate;.
</para>
</chapter>

<chapter id="fundamentals">
<title>The Fundamentals</title>

<para>
If you have ever used a text editor you will have no problem using
&kate;. In the next two sections, <link linkend="starting-kate">Starting
&kate; </link> and in <link linkend="working-with-kate">Working with
&kate;</link> we'll show you everything you need to get up and running
quickly.
</para>

<sect1 id="starting-kate">
<title>Starting &kate;</title>

<para>
You can start &kate; from the <guimenu>K menu</guimenu> or from the
command line.
</para>

<sect2 id="starting-from-the-menu">
<title>From the Menu</title>
<para>
Open the <acronym>KDE</acronym> program menu by clicking on the
<guiicon>big K</guiicon> icon on the toolbar at the bottom left of your
screen. This will raise the <guimenu>program menu</guimenu>. Move your
cursor up the menu to the <guimenu>Editors</guimenu> menu item. A list
of available editors will appear. Choose
<guimenuitem>&kate;</guimenuitem>.
</para>

<para>
Unless you configure &kate; not to, it will load the last files you
edited. See <link linkend="configure">Configuring &kate;</link> to learn
how to toggle this feature on and off.
</para>

</sect2>

<sect2 id="starting-from-the-command-line">
<title>From the Command Line</title>

<para>
You can start &kate; by typing its name on the command line. If you give
it a file name, as in the example below, it will open or create that
file.
</para>

<informalexample>
<screen>
<prompt>%</prompt><userinput><command>kate</command><option><replaceable>myfile.txt</replaceable></option></userinput>
</screen>
</informalexample>

<para>
If you have an active connection, and permission, you can take advantage
of &kde;'s network transparency to open files on the internet.
</para>

<informalexample>
<screen>
<prompt>%</prompt><userinput><command>kate</command><option><replaceable>ftp://ftp.kde.org/pub/kde/README_FIRST</replaceable></option></userinput>
</screen>
</informalexample>

<sect3 id="command-line-options">
<title>Command Line Options</title>
<para>&kate; accepts following command line options:</para>

<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term><userinput><command>kate</command> <option>--help</option></userinput></term>
<listitem>
<para>
This lists the most basic options available at the command line.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><userinput><command>kate</command>
<option>--help-qt</option></userinput></term>
<listitem>
<para>
This lists the options available for changing the way &kate; interacts
with &Qt;.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><userinput><command>kate</command> <option>--help-kde</option></userinput></term>
<listitem>
<para>
This lists the options available for changing the way &kate; interacts
with &kde;.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><userinput><command>kate</command>
<option>--help-all</option></userinput></term>
<listitem>
<para>
This lists all of the command line options.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><userinput><command>kate</command>
<option>--author</option></userinput></term>
<listitem>
<para>
Lists &kate;'s authors in the terminal window.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><userinput><command>kate</command>
<option>--version</option></userinput></term>
<listitem>
<para>
Lists version information for &Qt;, &kde;, and &kate;.  Also available
through <userinput><command>kate</command>
<option>-V</option></userinput>
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><userinput><command>kate</command>
<option>--licence</option></userinput></term>
<listitem>
<para>
Shows license information.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>
</sect3>
</sect2>

<sect2 id="drag-and-drop">
<title>Drag and Drop</title>
<para>
&kate; uses the &kde; Drag and Drop protocol. Files may be dragged and
dropped onto &kate; from the Desktop, &konqueror; or some remote ftp
site opened in one of &konqueror;'s windows.
</para>
</sect2>
</sect1>

<sect1 id="working-with-kate">
<title>Working with &kate;</title>
<para>
<link linkend="quick-start">Quick Start</link> will show you how to
toggle four simple options that will let you configure some of &kate;'s
more powerful features right away. <link linkend="keystroke-commands">
Keystroke Commands</link> lays out some of the default keystroke
shortcuts for those who can't or don't want to use a mouse.
</para>

<sect2 id="quick-start">
<title>Quick Start</title>

<para>
This section will describe some of the items on the
<guimenu>Settings</guimenu> menu so that you can quickly configure
&kate; to work the way you want it.
</para>

<para> When you start &kate; for the first time you'll see two windows
with white backgrounds. Above the two windows is a toolbar with the
usual labeled icons. And above that, a menu bar.
</para>

<para>
The left-hand window is a dockable side bar. It combines the Filelist
and Fileselector windows. Switch between the two by clicking on the tabs
at the top of the window. </para>

<para>
If you've started &kate; with a file, the right-hand window will show
the file you are editing and the Filelist on the side bar will show the
name of the file. Use the Fileselector window to open files.
</para>

<para>
You can toggle the Filelist and Fileselector window on and off in
<guimenu>Settings</guimenu> menu. This menu offers you your first
glimpse into &kate;'s power and flexibility.  In this section we'll look
at four items:
</para>

<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice><guimenuitem>Show
<accel>T</accel>oolbar</guimenuitem></menuchoice></term>
<listitem>
<para>
Toggles the toolbar on and off.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<menuchoice>
<guimenuitem>Show Filelist</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>
Toggles the Filelist on and off. If the Filelist/Fileselector window is
not open, &kate; launches the side bar as a separate, undocked,
window. To dock the window grab the two thin parallel lines above the
tabs by clicking on them with your &LMB; and holding the button
down. Drag the the window into &kate;'s editing window and release the
&LMB; when you have positioned the Filelist/Fileselector window as you
prefer.
</para>

<tip>
<para>
If you have grabbed the two parallel lines successfully your mouse
pointer will turn into two crossed arrows as you drag.
</para>
</tip>

</listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice><guimenuitem>Show
Fileselector</guimenuitem></menuchoice></term>
<listitem>
<para>
Toggles the Fileselector on and off. This menu item is the same as
<guimenuitem>Show Filelist</guimenuitem> with one difference.  Toggling
it on launches the window with the Fileselector on top.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice><guimenuitem>Show
<accel>C</accel>onsole</guimenuitem></menuchoice></term>
<listitem>
<para>
Toggles a console emulator on and off at the bottom of &kate;'s
window. In other words, it gives you a command line within the
application.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>
</sect2>

<sect2 id="keystroke-commands">
<title>Keystroke Commands</title>

<para>
Many of &kate;'s keystroke commands (shortcuts) are configurable by
way of the <link linkend="settings">Settings</link> menu.  By default
&kate; honors the following key bindings.
</para>

<informaltable>
<tgroup cols="2">
<tbody>

<row><entry><para><keycap>Insert</keycap></para></entry> 
<entry><para>
Toggle between Insert and Overwrite mode. When in insert mode the editor
will add any typed characters to the text and push any previously typed
data to the right of the text cursor. Overwrite mode causes the entry of
each character to eliminate the character immediately to the right of
the text cursor.</para></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><para><keycombo><keycap>Left Arrow</keycap></keycombo></para></entry>
<entry><para>Move the cursor one character to the left </para></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><para><keycombo><keycap>Right Arrow</keycap></keycombo></para></entry>
<entry><para> Move the cursor one character to the right </para></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><para><keycombo action="simul"><keycap>Up Arrow</keycap></keycombo></para></entry>
<entry><para> Move the cursor up one line  </para></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><para><keycombo action="simul"><keycap>Down Arrow</keycap></keycombo></para></entry>
<entry><para> Move the cursor down one line </para></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><para><keycombo action="simul"><keycap>Page Up</keycap></keycombo></para></entry>
<entry><para> Move the cursor up one page  </para></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><para><keycombo action="simul"><keycap>Page Down</keycap></keycombo></para></entry>
<entry><para>Move the cursor down one page  </para></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><para><keycombo action="simul"><keycap>Backspace</keycap></keycombo></para></entry>
<entry><para> Delete the character to the left of the cursor </para></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><para><keycombo action="simul"><keycap>Home</keycap></keycombo></para></entry>
<entry><para> Move the cursor to the beginning of the line </para></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><para><keycombo action="simul"><keycap>End</keycap></keycombo></para></entry>
<entry><para> Move the cursor to the end of the line </para></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><para><keycombo action="simul"><keycap>Delete</keycap></keycombo></para></entry>
<entry><para>Delete the character to the right of the cursor (or any selected
text)</para></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><para><keycombo action="simul"><keycap>Shift</keycap><keycap>Left Arrow</keycap></keycombo></para></entry>
<entry><para> Mark text one character to the left </para></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><para><keycombo action="simul"><keycap>Shift</keycap><keycap>Right Arrow</keycap></keycombo></para></entry>
<entry><para> Mark text one character to the right </para></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><para><keycombo action="simul"><keycap>F1</keycap></keycombo></para></entry>
<entry><para> Help</para></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><para><keycombo action="simul"><keycap>Shift</keycap><keycap>F1</keycap></keycombo></para></entry>
<entry><para><link linkend="whats-this">What's this?</link></para></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><para><keycombo action="simul"><keycap>Ctrl</keycap><keycap>F</keycap></keycombo></para></entry>
<entry><para><link linkend="find"> Find</link></para></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><para><keycombo action="simul"><keycap>F3</keycap></keycombo></para></entry>
<entry><para><link linkend="find-again"> Find again</link></para></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><para><keycombo action="simul"><keycap>Ctrl</keycap><keycap>B</keycap></keycombo></para></entry>
<entry><para>Set a Bookmark</para></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><para><keycombo action="simul"><keycap>Ctrl</keycap><keycap>C</keycap></keycombo></para></entry>
<entry><para> Copy the marked text to the clipboard. </para></entry>
</row>

<row>
<entry><para><keycombo action="simul"><keycap>Ctrl</keycap><keycap>N</keycap></keycombo></para></entry>
<entry><para> <link linkend="new">New</link> document</para></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><para><keycombo action="simul"><keycap>Ctrl</keycap><keycap>P</keycap></keycombo></para></entry>
<entry><para><link linkend="print">Print</link> </para></entry>
</row>
<row>

<entry><para><keycombo action="simul"><keycap>Ctrl</keycap><keycap>Q</keycap></keycombo></para></entry>
<entry><para>Quit - close active copy of editor </para></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><para><keycombo action="simul"><keycap>Ctrl</keycap><keycap>R</keycap></keycombo></para></entry>
<entry><para><link linkend="replace"> Replace</link></para></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><para><keycombo action="simul"><keycap>Ctrl</keycap><keycap>S</keycap></keycombo></para></entry>
<entry><para>Save your file.</para></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><para><keycombo action="simul"><keycap>Ctrl</keycap><keycap>V</keycap></keycombo></para></entry>
<entry><para> Paste.</para></entry>
</row>

<row>
<entry><para><keycombo action="simul"><keycap>Ctrl</keycap><keycap>X</keycap></keycombo></para></entry>
<entry><para>Delete the marked text and copy it to the clipboard. </para></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><para><keycombo action="simul"><keycap>Ctrl</keycap><keycap>Z</keycap></keycombo></para></entry>
<entry><para><link linkend="undo">Undo</link></para></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><para><keycombo action="simul"><keycap>Ctrl</keycap><keycap>Shift</keycap><keycap>Z</keycap></keycombo></para></entry>
<entry><para><link linkend="redo">Redo</link></para></entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</informaltable>
</sect2>

</sect1>
</chapter>

<chapter id="menu-entries">
<title>Menu Entries</title>
<sect1 id="file-menu">
<title>The <guimenu>File</guimenu> Menu</title>

<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term>
<anchor id="new"/>
<menuchoice>
<shortcut>
<keycombo action="simul"><keycap>Ctrl</keycap><keycap>N</keycap></keycombo>
</shortcut>
<guimenu><accel>F</accel>ile</guimenu>
<guimenuitem><accel>N</accel>ew</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>
This command <action>starts a new document</action> in the editing
window.  In the <guibutton>Filelist</guibutton> on the left the new file
is named <emphasis>Untitled</emphasis>.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<anchor id="open"/>
<menuchoice>
<shortcut>
<keycombo action="simul"><keycap>Ctrl</keycap><keycap>O</keycap></keycombo>
</shortcut>
<guimenu><accel>F</accel>ile</guimenu>
<guimenuitem><accel>O</accel>pen</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>
This command does not <action>open a file</action>. It
launches &kde;'s open file dialog box which waits for you
to select the files you want to open.
</para>

<para>
The open file dialog box works like a simple version of &konqueror;. Use
your &LMB; to click on a file name to select it. Double-click on a file
name to open that file. Once you've selected a file name, you can also
press the <guibutton>OK</guibutton> button to open the
file.
</para>
<tip>
<para>
Select multiple files by holding down the <keycap>Ctrl</keycap> or the
<keycap>Shift</keycap> key along with the &LMB;.
<keycombo action="simul">
<keycap>Ctrl</keycap><mousebutton>Left</mousebutton>
</keycombo>
click selects one file at a time.
<keycombo action="simul">
<keycap>Shift</keycap><mousebutton>Left</mousebutton>
</keycombo>
click selects a contiguous set of files.
</para>
</tip>

<para>
Clicking on a directory name in the file selection window
opens that directory and displays its contents.
Clicking on a file name shows a thumbnail view of the file in the
preview window to the right of the file system window.
</para>

<para>
Use the buttons and combo box on the toolbar above the file selection
window to move through the file system or to adjust the properties of
the open file dialog box.
</para>

<para>
Below the file selection window is the Location
combo  box. Type the name of the file you want to edit
here. If you click the arrow on the right of the drop down
box, you can choose from recently used files. Open several
files at once by quoting each file name.
</para>

<para>
Below the Location combo box is the Filter combo box.  Enter file masks
here to filter the kinds of files shown in the selection window. For
example, typing the filter <literal role="extension">*.txt</literal> and
pressing <keycap>Enter</keycap> will limit the display to files with a
<literal role="extension">.txt</literal> extension.  The Filter combo
contains a list of your most recently used filters.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<anchor id="open-recent"/>
<menuchoice>
<guimenu><accel>F</accel>ile</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Open <accel>R</accel>ecent</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>
This command allows you to <action>open a file</action> from a submenu
that contains a list of recently edited files.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<anchor id="save"/>
<menuchoice>
<shortcut>
<keycombo action="simul"><keycap>Ctrl</keycap><keycap>S</keycap></keycombo>
</shortcut>
<guimenu><accel>F</accel>ile</guimenu>
<guimenuitem><accel>S</accel>ave</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>
This command <action>saves your file</action>. Use it often. If the file is
<emphasis>Untitled</emphasis> then
<guimenuitem>Save</guimenuitem> becomes
<guimenuitem>Save As</guimenuitem>.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<anchor id="save-as"/>
<menuchoice>
<guimenu><accel>F</accel>ile</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Save <accel>A</accel>s</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>
<action>Name and rename files</action> with this command.
It launches the save file dialog box. This dialog works just as
the open file dialog box does. You can use it to navigate through
your file system, preview existing files, or filter your file
view with file masks.
</para>

<para>
Type the name you want to give the file you are saving in the
Location combo box and press the
<guibutton>OK</guibutton> button.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<anchor id="save-all"/>
<menuchoice>
<shortcut>
<keycombo action="simul"><keycap>Ctrl</keycap><keycap>L</keycap></keycombo>
</shortcut>
<guimenu><accel>F</accel>ile</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Save A<accel>l</accel>l</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>
This command <action>saves all open files</action>.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<anchor id="reload"/>
<menuchoice>
<shortcut>
<keycombo action="simul"><keycap>F5</keycap></keycombo>
</shortcut>
<guimenu><accel>F</accel>ile</guimenu>
<guimenuitem><accel>R</accel>eload</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>
<action>Reloads the active file from disk</action>.  This command is
useful if another program or process has changed the file while you have
it open in &kate;
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<anchor id="open-with"/>
<menuchoice>
<guimenu><accel>F</accel>ile</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>O<accel>p</accel>en with</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>
This command launches the open with dialog box that allows you to
<action>select another application to open the active
file</action>. Your file will still be open in &kate;.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<anchor id="print"/>
<menuchoice>
<shortcut>
<keycombo action="simul"><keycap>Ctrl</keycap><keycap>P</keycap></keycombo>
</shortcut>
<guimenu><accel>F</accel>ile</guimenu>
<guimenuitem><accel>P</accel>rint</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>
<action>Print the active file</action>.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<anchor id="close"/>
<menuchoice>
<shortcut>
<keycombo action="simul"><keycap>Ctrl</keycap><keycap>W</keycap></keycombo>
</shortcut>
<guimenu><accel>F</accel>ile</guimenu>
<guimenuitem><accel>C</accel>lose</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>
<action>Close the active file</action> with this command. If you
have made unsaved changes, you will be prompted to save
the file before &kate; closes it.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<anchor id="close-all"/>
<menuchoice>
<guimenu><accel>F</accel>ile</guimenu>
<guimenuitem><accel>C</accel>lose All</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>
This command <action>closes all the files you have open</action>
in &kate;.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<anchor id="new-window"/>
<menuchoice>
<guimenu><accel>F</accel>ile</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>New <accel>W</accel>indow</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>
<action>Opens a another instance of &kate;</action>.
The new instance will be identical to your previous instance.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<anchor id="quit"/>
<menuchoice>
<shortcut>
<keycombo action="simul"><keycap>Ctrl</keycap><keycap>Q</keycap></keycombo>
</shortcut>
<guimenu><accel>F</accel>ile</guimenu>
<guimenuitem><accel>Q</accel>uit</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>
</term>
<listitem>
<para>
This command <action>closes &kate;</action> and any files you were
editing. If you have made unsaved changes to any of the files you were
editing, you will be prompted to save them.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>
</sect1>

</chapter>

<chapter id="configuring-kate">
<title>Configuring Kate</title>
<para>
<anchor id="settings"/>
<anchor id="configure"/>
<anchor id="whats-this"/>
<anchor id="find"/>
<anchor id="find-again"/>
<!-- <anchor id="print"/> -->
<anchor id="replace"/>
<!-- <anchor id="save"/> -->
<anchor id="undo"/>
<anchor id="redo"/>
This chapter will show you all the options for configuring
&kate;.
</para>
</chapter>

<chapter id="credits">

<!-- Include credits for the programmers, documentation writers, and
contributors here. The license for your software should then be included
below the credits with a reference to the appropriate license file
included in the KDE distribution. -->

<title>Credits and License</title>

<para>
&kate; Copyright 2000, 2001, Christoph Cullmann.
</para>

<!-- To save you some work, here's Kate's author list (I could mark it -->
<!-- up too if you want, I just didn't want to interfere too much :) -->

<!-- 
Kate was written by
Christoph Cullmann <cullmann@kde.org>
Anders Lund <anders@alweb.dk>
Joseph Wenninger <jowenn@bigfoot.com>
Michael Bartl <michael.bartl1@chello.at>
Phlip <phlip_cpp@my-deja.com>
Waldo Bastian <bastian@kde.org>
Matt Newell <newellm@proaxis.com>
Michael McCallum <gholam@xtra.co.nz>
Jochen Wilhemly <digisnap@cs.tu-berlin.de>
Michael Koch <koch@kde.org>
Christian Gebauer <gebauer@bigfoot.com>
Simon Hausmann <hausmann@kde.org>
Glen Parker <glenebob@nwlink.com>
Scott Manson <sdmanson@alltel.net>
John Firebaugh <jfire@uclink.berkeley.edu>
-->

<para>
Documentation copyright 2000,2001 Seth Rothberg,
<email>sethmr@bellatlantic.net</email>
</para>

<!-- TRANS:CREDIT_FOR_TRANSLATORS -->

&underFDL;               <!-- FDL: do not remove -->
&underGPL;               <!-- GPL License -->

</chapter>


&documentation.index;

</book>
<!--
Local Variables:
mode: sgml
sgml-namecase-general: t
sgml-namecase-entity: nil
sgml-general-insert-case: lower
sgml-minimize-attributes: nil
sgml-omittag: nil
End:
-->



