<?xml version="1.0" ?>
<!DOCTYPE book PUBLIC "-//KDE//DTD DocBook XML V4.1-Based Variant V1.0//EN" "dtd/kdex.dtd" [
  <!ENTITY kappname "&kdm;">
  <!ENTITY % addindex "IGNORE">
  <!ENTITY % English "INCLUDE" > <!-- change language only here -->
  
  
]>

<book lang="&language;">
<bookinfo>
<title>The &kdm; Handbook</title>

<authorgroup>
<author>
<firstname>Neal</firstname>
<surname>Crook</surname>
<affiliation><address><email>nac@forth.org</email></address></affiliation>
</author>
<othercredit role="developer">
<firstname>Steffen</firstname>
<surname>Hansen</surname>
<affiliation><address><email>stefh@dit.ou.dk</email></address></affiliation>
<contrib>Developer</contrib>
</othercredit>
<othercredit role="reviewer">
<firstname>Lauri</firstname>
<surname>Watts</surname>
<affiliation><address><email>vampyr@atconnex.net</email></address></affiliation>
<contrib>Reviewer</contrib>
</othercredit>

<!-- TRANS:ROLES_OF_TRANSLATORS -->

</authorgroup>

<copyright>
<year>2000</year>
<holder>Neal Crook</holder>
</copyright>

<date>2000-12-12</date>
<releaseinfo>0.05.02</releaseinfo>

<abstract>
<para>This document describes &kdm; the KDE Display Manager. &kdm; is also known
as the <quote>Login Manager</quote>.</para>
</abstract>
<keywordset>
<keyword>KDE</keyword>
<keyword>kdm</keyword>
<keyword>xdm</keyword>
<keyword>display manager</keyword>
<keyword>login manager</keyword>
</keywordset>
</bookinfo>

<!-- ********************************************************************** -->   
<chapter id="Introduction"> 

<title>Introduction</title> 

<para> &kdm; provides a graphical interface that allows you to log in to a
system. It prompts for login (username) and password, authenticates the user and
starts to run a "session".  &kdm; is a "drop-in" replacement for
<application>xdm</application>, the X Display Manager, and is superior to it in
a number of ways.</para> <para> The user-interface to &kdm; is through two
dialogue boxes. The main dialogue box has these features:</para>

<itemizedlist> 
<listitem><para>A "<guilabel>Login</guilabel>" field for you to enter your
username.</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>A "<guilabel>Pass</guilabel>" field for you to enter your
password.</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>A region to the left of the "<guilabel>Login</guilabel>" and
"<guilabel>Pass</guilabel>" fields which can be used to display either a static
image or an analogue clock.</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>(Optionally) a graphical image of each user (for example, a
digitised photograph). Clicking on an image is equivalent to typing the
associated username into the "<guilabel>Login</guilabel>" field. (This feature
is an imitatation of the login box on IRIX).</para></listitem> 
<listitem><para>A "<guilabel>session type</guilabel>" drop-down box that allows
&kdm; to be used to start sessions with various different window managers or
desktop environments installed on the system, including KDE, KDE2 and
GNOME.</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>A "<guibutton>Go!</guibutton>" button that validates the
username/password combination and attempts to start a session of the selected
type.</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>A "<guibutton>Cancel</guibutton>" button that clears the text
from the "<guilabel>Login</guilabel>" and "<guilabel>Pass</guilabel>"
fields.</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>(Optionally) a "<guibutton>Shutdown</guibutton>" button that
displays the "<guibutton>Shutdown</guibutton>" dialogue box.</para></listitem>
</itemizedlist>

<para>The "<guilabel>Shutdown</guilabel>" dialogue box presents a set of radio buttons
that allow one of these options to be selected:</para>

<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term>Shutdown</term>
<listitem><para>Shut the system down in a controlled manner,
ready for power-down.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term>Restart</term>
<listitem><para>Shut the system down and reboot. For systems that use
<application>Lilo</application>, an optional drop-down box allows you to select
a particular operating-system kernel to be used for the
reboot.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term>Restart X Server</term> 
<listitem><para>Stop and then restart the X-server. Typically, you might need to
use this option if you have changed your X11 configuration in some
way.</para></listitem> 
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term>Console Mode</term>
<listitem><para>Stop the X-server and return the system to console mode. This is
achieved by bringing the system down to run-level 3. Typically, the system
manager might need to use this option before upgrading or re-configuring X11
software.</para></listitem> 
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>

<para>Pressing the "<guibutton>OK</guibutton>" button initiates the selected action;
pressing the "<guibutton>Cancel</guibutton>" button returns to the main &kdm;
dialogue box. </para>

<para>The next chapter explains how to configure &kdm;. Subsequent chapters
describe how to configure your system in order to use &kdm;, how to build and
install &kdm; from source, and how to learn more about &kdm; and the KDE
project.</para> 

</chapter>

<!-- *********************************************************************** -->
<chapter id="Configuring-kdm">
<title>Configuring &kdm;</title>

<para>This chapter assumes that &kdm; is already up and running on your system,
and that you simply want to change its behaviour in some way. If your problem is
more serious, skip forward to later chapters. </para> 

<para>When &kdm; starts up, it reads its configuration from the file
<filename>kdmrc</filename>. Since &kdm; must run before any user is logged in,
it is not associated with any particular user. Therefore, it is not possible to
have a user-specific <filename>$HOME/share/config/kdmrc</filename> file; all
users share the common version of <filename>kdmrc</filename>, located in
<filename>$KDEDIR/share/config/kdmrc</filename>. It follows from this that the
configuration of &kdm; can only be altered by those users that have write-access
to <filename>$KDEDIR/share/config/kdmrc</filename> (normally restricted to
system administrators logged in as "root"). </para> 

<!-- ** nac TODO the link to local kderc doesn't work.. I get a security ** -->
<!-- error; yet I can point to the file manually. what should it be? --> 

<para>You can view the <filename>kdmrc</filename> file currently in use on your
system (located by default at <filename>$KDEDIR/share/config/kdmrc</filename>),
and you can configure &kdm; by editing this file. Alternatively, you can use the
graphical configuration tool provided by the KDE Control Centre (under
<menuchoice><guisubmenu>Applications</guisubmenu>
<guisubmenu>System</guisubmenu> <guimenuitem>Login
Manager</guimenuitem></menuchoice>), which is described in <ulink
url="help:/kcontrol/login-manager.html">the KControl help files</ulink>.</para>

<para>The remainder of this chapter describes the contents of the
<literal>kdmrc</literal> file. If you are happy using the graphical
configuration tool, there's no need to read any further.</para>

<!-- ** nac: updated KDM keys list from code of 2000-06-06 -->

<para>There are four sections in <literal>kdmrc</literal>:</para>

<sect1 id="KDM">
<title>KDM</title>
<para>The keys in this section are:</para>
<screen>StdFont
FailFont
GreetFont
GreetString
SessionTypes
LogoArea
LogoPixmap
ShutdownButton
Shutdown
Restart
ConsoleMode
UserView
Users
NoUsers
SortUsers
GUIStyle
</screen>

<para>A short description of the keys:</para>
<variablelist>

<varlistentry>
<term><parameter>*Font</parameter></term>
<listitem><para>A fontsstring formatted like this:
Courier,12,5,iso-8859-1,50,0.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><parameter>GreetString</parameter></term>
<listitem><para>The title of the &kdm; login window.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><parameter>SessionTypes</parameter></term>
<listitem><para>A comma-separated list of session arguments, usually used to
select a particular window manager. Defaults to
<option>SessionTypes=kde,failsafe</option>.</para> </listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><parameter>LogoArea</parameter></term>
<listitem><para>Controls what appears in the lower left-hand corner of the login
window. Can be either <option>KdmLogo</option> (in which case the image
specified by <option>LogoPixMap</option> is displayed) or
<option>KdmClock</option> (in which case a clock is displayed).</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><parameter>LogoPixmap</parameter></term>
<listitem><para>Specifies the image to be displayed in the lower left-hand
corner of the login window when LogoArea=KdmLogo.</para> </listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><parameter>ShutdownButton</parameter></term>
<listitem><para>ShutdownButton controls when the shutdown button is displayed
and can be one of <option>All</option>, <option>None</option>,
<option>RootOnly</option> and <option>ConsoleOnly</option>. The meaning of
<option>All</option> and <option>None</option> is very clear. If you choose
<option>ConsoleOnly</option> you can't do a remote shutdown. If you choose
<option>RootOnly</option> you will be prompted to enter the root password before
the shutdown will proceed.</para> </listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><parameter>Shutdown and Restart</parameter></term>
<listitem><para>The commands to run on system shutdown and restart,
respectively. (Defaults: <command>/sbin/halt</command> and
<command>/sbin/reboot</command> respectively.</para> </listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><parameter>ConsoleMode</parameter></term>
<listitem><para>The command string used by the Console Mode option of the
"<guibutton>Shutdown</guibutton>" button. (Default: <command>/sbin/init
<option>3</option></command>). This option is not available under BSD.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><parameter>UserView</parameter></term>
<listitem><para>If this is set to "<option>1</option>", a graphical view of
users will be displayed in the &kdm; window.</para> </listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><parameter>Users</parameter></term>
<listitem><para>A comma-separated list of usernames that will be displayed in
the graphical user view. If <parameter>UserView</parameter> is set to
"<replaceable>1</replaceable>" and the <parameter>Users</parameter> entry is
missing, &kdm; will look for users in the password file
<filename>/etc/passwd</filename>. The users displayed are those who have a real
name beside their login name, a home directory and a default shell - the rest
are skipped. &kdm; will look in
<filename>$KDEDIR/share/apps/kdm/pics/users/</filename> for an icon for each
user. If an icon named <filename>johndoe.png</filename> exists, &kdm; will use
that for displaying user johndoe. If not, &kdm; will use
<filename>default.png</filename>. </para> 
<para>&kdm; is able to handle icons of different sizes, but the result looks
messy. The solution to this is to use an application such as KDE's
<application>Pixie</application>, (or the GNU Image Manipulation Program,
(<application>gimp</application>) or John Bradley's
<application>XV</application>,) to convert all your images to the same size. A
size of 64x64 should give enough resolution, and matches the default icons
provided. These two programs can also be used to convert images from various
formats into png format.</para></listitem> 
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><parameter>NoUsers</parameter></term>
<listitem><para>A comma-separated list of usernames that won't be displayed. Use
it to filter "pseudo-users" like <literal>sync</literal> and
<literal>shutdown</literal> from the user view.</para>  </listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><parameter>SortUsers</parameter></term>
<listitem><para>If set to "<option>0</option>", the list of users are displayed
in the order it was read. The default is to display users in sorted
order.</para> </listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><parameter>GUIStyle</parameter></term>
<listitem><para>Can be either <option>Motif</option> or
<option>Windows</option>.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

</variablelist>

</sect1>

<sect1 id="KDMDESKTOP">
<title>KDMDESKTOP</title>

<para>This section is obsolete. In previous versions of &kdm; it could be used
to control a background screen prior to login. The graphical configurator for
&kdm; may still generate this section, but it is ignored by &kdm;.</para>

</sect1>

<sect1 id="Locale">
<title>Locale</title> 

<para>This section is handled by a standard KDE library. The only keys that are
likely to have any effect are:</para>

<screen>Country
Language
Charset
</screen>

<para>A short description of the keys:</para>

<variablelist>

<varlistentry>
<term><parameter>Country</parameter></term>
<listitem><para>indicates the country. Look in
<filename>$KDEDIR/share/locale/l10n</filename> for the complete list of country
codes supported by your system. The country code is used to locate the file
<filename>$KDEDIR/share/locale/l10n/country_code/entry.desktop</filename>
which is used to provide locale-specific information such as time and date
formats and the local currency symbol.</para> </listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><parameter>Language</parameter></term>
<listitem><para>indicates the language to use for &kdm; (default:
<option>C</option>, representing US English). The value can be over-ridden by
the <envar>KDE_LANG</envar> environment variable.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><parameter>Charset</parameter></term>
<listitem>
<para>indicates the character set to use (default:
<option>iso-8859-1</option>).</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>

<note><para>If you change the keys but all the dialogue text remains in English,
this probably indicates that you do not have the translations installed on your
system.</para></note>

</sect1>

<sect1 id="Lilo">
<title><application>Lilo</application></title> 
<para><application>Lilo</application> (Linux Loader) is a boot manager that is
often used on GNU/Linux systems. Lilo comes with extensive documentation (see
<ulink url="man:lilo">man lilo</ulink> as a start). This section configures
mechanisms for restarting the system using <application>Lilo</application>. The
keys are:</para>

<screen>
Lilo
LiloCommand
LiloMap
</screen>

<para>A short description of the keys: </para>

<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term><parameter>Lilo</parameter></term>
<listitem><para>Controls whether <application>Lilo</application> is used to
restart the system (default: <option>FALSE</option>). When this key is set to
<option>TRUE</option>, the "shutdown" dialogue box contains an extra drop-down
configuration box next to the "restart" radio button. The drop-down allows you
to select the kernel image that is to be used when rebooting the system. The
list of images is created by querying the Lilo map file.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry> 

<varlistentry>
<term><parameter>LiloCommand</parameter></term>
<listitem>
<para>The location of the <application>Lilo</application> binary (default:
<filename>/sbin/lilo</filename>).</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><parameter>LiloMap</parameter></term>
<listitem><para>The location of the <application>Lilo</application> map
file. The map file is maintained by <application>Lilo</application> and contains
a list of kernels (versions of the operating system) to boot (default:
<filename>/boot/map</filename>).</para></listitem> </varlistentry>
</variablelist>

</sect1>

</chapter>

<!-- ************************************************************ -->   
<chapter id="Configuring-your-system-for-kdm">
<title>Configuring your system to use &kdm;</title>

<para>This chapter assumes that your system is already configured to
run the X Window System, and that you only need to reconfigure it to
allow graphical login.</para>

<sect1 id="setting-up-kdm">
<title>Setting up &kdm;</title>

<para>The fundamental thing that controls whether your computer boots
to a terminal prompt (console mode) or a graphical login prompt is the
default runlevel.  The runlevel is set by the program <application>
<ulink url="man:init">/sbin/init</ulink></application> under
the control of the configuration file <filename>/etc/inittab</filename>. The default
runlevels used by different Unix systems (and different Linux
distributions) vary, but if you look at <filename>/etc/inittab</filename> the
start of it should be something like this:</para>

<screen># Default runlevel. The runlevels used by RHS are:
# 0 - halt (Do NOT set initdefault to this)
# 1 - Single user mode
# 2 - Multiuser, without NFS
# 3 - Full multiuser mode
# 4 - unused
# 5 - X11
# 6 - reboot (Do NOT set initdefault to this)

id:3:initdefault:  
</screen>

<para>All but the last line of this extract are comments. The comments
show that runlevel 5 is used for X11 and that runlevel 3 is used for
multi-user mode without X11 (console mode). The final line specifies
that the default runlevel of the system is 3 (console mode). If your
system currently uses graphical login (for example, using
<application>xdm</application>) its default runlevel will match the runlevel
specified for X11.</para>

<para>The runlevel with graphical login (<application>xdm</application>) for
some common Linux distributions are:</para>

<itemizedlist>
<listitem><para>5 for Red Hat 3.x and later, and for Mandrake</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>4 for Slackware</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>3 for S.u.S.E. 4.x and 5.x</para></listitem>
</itemizedlist>

<para>The first step in configuring your system is to ensure that you
can start &kdm; from the command line. Once this is working, you can
change your system configuration so that &kdm; starts automatically each
time you reboot your system.</para>

<para>To test &kdm;, you must first bring your system to a runlevel that
doesn't run <application>xdm</application>. To do so, issue a command like
this:</para>

<screen><command>/sbin/init <option>3</option></command>
</screen>

<para>Instead of the number "<option>3</option>" you should specify the
appropriate runlevel for console mode on your system.</para>

<para>Next you need to locate your <application>xdm</application> configuration
directory; normally <filename>/etc/X11/xdm/</filename> or
<filename>/usr/X11R6/lib/X11/xdm/</filename>. The configuration directory
contains the file <filename>Xsetup_0</filename>. If you build &kdm; from source
code and the <filename>configure</filename> step is unable to find this
directory, it will install a new version of <filename>Xsetup_0</filename> from
a template file in the &kdm; source tree. You can include the line:</para> 

<screen>kdmdesktop</screen>

<!-- ** nac: TODO 14Jul2000 not sure whether kdmdesktop still works.
     ** The binary still exists; it is built in kdebase/kdesktop but it
     ** doesn't use the kdmrc file; from the source code it seems to read
     ** the kdmdesktoprc file, which does not exist -->

<para>In your file to display some nice backgrounds (pictures and
background colors). (I'm not sure if this still works; it is certainly
not required).  If your <envar>KDEDIR</envar> is not
<filename>/opt/kde</filename> you may have to change the path to
<filename>kdmdesktop</filename>.</para>

<para>If your system uses Pluggable Authentication Modules
(<abbrev>PAM</abbrev>), which is normal with recent Red Hat and Mandrake
systems, you should check that your <abbrev>PAM</abbrev> configuration permits
login through the service named <literal>xdm</literal>. If you previously used
<application>xdm</application> successfully, you should not need to make any
changes to your <abbrev>PAM</abbrev> configuration in order to use
&kdm;. <filename>/etc/pam.conf</filename> or
<filename>/etc/pam.d/xdm</filename>. Information on configuring
<abbrev>PAM</abbrev> is beyond the scope of this handbook, but
<abbrev>PAM</abbrev> comes with comprehensive documentation (try looking in
<filename>/usr/doc/pam*/html</filename>).</para>

<para>Now it's time for you to test &kdm; by issuing the following
command:</para>

<screen><command>kdm <option>-nodaemon</option></command>
</screen>

<para>If you get a &kdm; login box and you are able to log in, things
are going well.  The main thing that can go wrong here is that the
run-time linker might not find the shared Qt or KDE libraries.  If you
have a binary distribution of the KDE libraries, make sure &kdm; is
installed where the libraries believe kde is installed (usually
<filename>/opt/kde/bin</filename>) and try setting some environment variables to
point to your KDE and Qt libraries. For example:</para>

<screen><command>export <option>KDEDIR=<replaceable>/opt/kde</replaceable></option></command>
<command>export <option>QTDIR=<replaceable>/usr/lib/qt2</replaceable></option></command>
<command>export <option>PATH=<replaceable>$KDEDIR/bin:$QTDIR/bin:$PATH</replaceable></option></command>
<command>export <option>LD_LIBRARY_PATH=<replaceable>$KDEDIR/lib:$QTDIR/lib</replaceable></option></command>
</screen>

<para>If you are still unsuccessful, try starting <application>xdm</application>
instead, to make sure that you are not suffering from a more serious X
configuration problem.</para>

<para>When you are able to start &kdm; successfully, you can start to
replace <application>xdm</application> by &kdm;. Again, this is
distribution-dependent.</para>

<itemizedlist>

<listitem><para>For Redhat, edit <filename>/etc/inittab</filename>, look for the string xdm and replace
it with &kdm; (including all paths).</para></listitem>

<listitem><para>For Mandrake, the X11 runlevel in
<filename>/etc/inittab</filename> invokes the shell script
<filename>/etc/X11/prefdm</filename>, which is set up to select from amongst
several display managers, including &kdm;. Make sure that all the paths are
correct for your installation.</para> </listitem>

<listitem><para>For <abbrev>S.u.S.E</abbrev>, edit
<filename>/sbin/init.d/xdm</filename> to add a first line:</para>

<screen>. /etc/rc.config
DISPLAYMANAGER=kdm
export DISPLAYMANAGER
</screen>
</listitem>

<listitem><para>Most other distributions are a variation of one of
these.</para></listitem>
</itemizedlist>

<para>If you don't like changing <filename>inittab</filename>, an alternative is
to rename <filename>xdm</filename> to <filename>xdm.bak</filename> and make
<filename>xdm</filename> a symbolic link to &kdm;.</para>

<para>At this stage, you can test &kdm; again by bringing your system to the
runlevel that should now run &kdm;. To do so, issue a command like this:</para>

<screen><command>/sbin/init <option>5</option></command>
</screen>

<para>Instead of the number "<option>5</option>" you should specify the
appropriate runlevel for running X11 on your system.</para>

<para>The final step is to edit the <parameter>initdefault</parameter>
entry in <filename>/etc/inittab</filename> to specify the
appropriate runlevel for X11.</para>

<warning><para>Before you make this change, ensure that you have a way to reboot
your system if a problem occurs. This might be a "rescue" floppy-disk provided
by your operating system distribution or a specially-designed "rescue"
floppy-disk, such as <literal>tomsrtbt</literal>. Ignore this advice at your
peril.</para></warning> 

<para>When you reboot your system, you should end up with the
graphical &kdm; login box.</para>

<para>If this step is unsuccessful the most likely problem is that the
environment used at boot time differs from the environment that you used for
testing at the command line. Check files like
<filename>/etc/X11/xdm/Xsetup_0</filename> (and any scripts that it invokes) to
make sure that your path is not being changed without your knowledge. If you are
trying to get two versions of KDE to co-exist, be particularly careful that the
settings you use for your <envar>PATH</envar> and <envar>LD_LIBRARY_PATH</envar>
environent variables are consistent, and that the startup scripts are not
over-riding them in some way.</para>

</sect1>

<sect1 id="different-window-managers-with-kdm">
<title>Supporting multiple window managers</title>

<para>The main dialogue box for &kdm; includes a "<guilabel>session
type</guilabel>" drop-down box, which allows you to select a window manager to
use for your session. This chapter describes the changes that you must make to
your configuration files in order to support this feature.</para>

<para>The options that appear in the "<guilabel>session type</guilabel>" drop-down box
are <ulink url="KDM">configured</ulink> by entries in the <literal>KDM</literal>
section of <filename>kdmrc</filename>.</para> 

<para>When you log in using &kdm;, the shell script
<filename>Xsession</filename> is executed.  The session type that you select is
passed as a command-line argument.  (<filename>Xsession</filename> can be found
in <filename>/etc/X11/xdm/</filename> for Redhat and Mandrake, and in
<filename>/usr/X11R6/lib/X11/xdm/</filename> for S.u.S.E.). Whilst debugging,
you might find it helpful to add this line to
<filename>Xsession</filename>:</para>
      
<screen>echo "$0 || $1 || $2" > $HOME/.Xsession_args </screen>

<para>How you proceed now depends upon how your system usually starts
up window managers. Here are two different approaches, with examples of the
changes that you must make:</para>

<itemizedlist>

<listitem><para>The window manager is started by commands within
<filename>Xsession</filename>. In this case, you can add a case statement to
start the appropriate window manager. Linux Mandrake uses this approach; here is
an extract from <filename>Xsession</filename>:</para>

<screen># now, we see if xdm/gdm/kdm has asked for a specific environment
case $# in
1)
    case $1 in
        kde)
        source /opt/kde2/bin/kde1
        exec startkde
        ;;
        kde2)
        source /opt/kde2/bin/kde2
        exec startkde
        ;;
    	failsafe)
	exec xterm -geometry 80x24-0-0
	;;
	default)
	;;
	*)
	exec /bin/sh -c "$(/usr/sbin/chksession -x=$1)"
	;;
     esac
esac
</screen>
</listitem>

<listitem><para>The window manager is started by another script that
is invoked by <filename>Xsession</filename>. In this case you
must ensure that the parameter passed to <filename>Xsession</filename> is passed
on to that other script. For example, if the window manager is started like
this:</para>

<screen><command>exec <option>$startup</option></command></screen>

<para>you would need to change it to:</para>

<screen><command>exec <option>$startup</option> <option>$@</option></command></screen>

<para>Having made this change, you must trace your way through the
startup to find the place where the window manager is started. One
approach uses <filename>xinitrc</filename> to start the
window manager; this allows a system-wide file
<filename>/etc/X11/xinit/xinitrc</filename> or a user-specific file 
<filename>$HOME/.xinitrc</filename> to be used. If you edit
<filename>$HOME/.xinitrc</filename>, you may want to save a
copy in <filename>/etc/skel</filename>, so that it will be
automatically generated in every user account you create from now on.
Here is an example <filename>xinitrc</filename> for a system
using this approach:</para>

<screen>#!/bin/bash
#
# .xsession/.xinitrc
#
# choose a window manager
#

defaultwm=kde
#set the window manager to $1 if it was supplied
windowmgr=${1:-$defaultwm}

#start the respective window managers
case ${windowmgr} in
  kde|kwm|kdestart)
	WINDOWMANAGER=startkde
	;;
  fvwm|fvwm2)
	WINDOWMANAGER=fvwm2
	;;

  fvwm95)
	WINDOWMANAGER=fvwm95
	;;

  *)    WINDOWMANAGER=windowmgr   # default for unknown wm's

esac

#
# load resources
#

if [ -f /usr/X11R6/lib/X11/Xmodmap ]; then
    xmodmap /usr/X11R6/lib/X11/Xmodmap
fi

if [ -f ~/.Xmodmap ]; then
    xmodmap ~/.Xmodmap
fi

if [ -f ~/.Xdefaults ]; then
    xrdb -merge ~/.Xdefaults
fi

if [ -f ~/.Xresources ]; then
    xrdb -merge ~/.Xresources
fi
# 
# finally start the window manager
#
exec $WINDOWMANAGER
</screen>

</listitem>
</itemizedlist>


</sect1>
</chapter>

<!-- *********************************************************************** -->
<chapter id="Building-and-Installing-kdm">
<title>Building and Installing kdm</title>

<para>&kdm; is part of the KDE project. The various component parts of the KDE
project are broken into sections, called packages. &kdm; is part of the package
called kdebase. You can get KDE source code from various Linux and BSD
distribution CDs, or by download from <ulink
url="http://www.kde.org">www.kde.org</ulink> or its mirrors. If you have an
out-of-date source code tree, you can use one of the KDE cvsup servers to bring
it up-to-date whilst using minimal network bandwidth.
</para>

<para>Before building kdebase, you must have built and installed (in this order)
version 2 of the qt library and the KDE packages kde-qt-addon, kdesupport and
kdelibs.</para>

<para>In order to build any of the above, you must already have the X Window
System installed, together with a C++ compiler and the GNU configuration tools
<application>configure</application>, <application>automake</application> and
<application>autoconf</application>.</para>

<para>If the last few paragraphs seemed like a foreign language, then
either you have strayed into an Inappropriate Area of this handbook,
or you are about to undergo a Great Learning Experience.</para>

<para>If you managed to satisfy all of the prerequisites, you are unlikely to
have any problems with building and installing kdebase. &kdm; is installed in
your "<filename>$KDEDIR/bin</filename>" directory.</para>

<note><para><command>make <option>install</option></command> will overwrite your
previous <filename>kdmrc</filename>.</para></note>

</chapter>


<!-- *********************************************************************** -->
<chapter id="Other-Information">
<title>Other sources of information</title>

<para>Since &kdm; is descended from <application>xdm</application>, the <ulink
url="man:xdm">xdm man page</ulink> may provide useful background
information. For X-related problems try the man pages <ulink
url="man:X">X</ulink> and <ulink url="man:startx">startx</ulink>. If you have
questions about &kdm; that aren't answered by this handbook, take advantage of
the fact the &kdm; is provided under the terms of the <abbrev>GNU</abbrev>gnu>
Public License: look at the source code.
</para>

</chapter>

<!-- *********************************************************************** -->
<chapter id="credits"><title>Credits and License</title>

<para>&kdm; is derived from, and includes code from,
<application>xdm</application>.</para>

<para>&kdm; 0.1 was written by Matthias Ettrich. All later versions were
written by Steffen Hansen.</para>

<para><application>Xdm</application> is copyright (c) 1990, X
Consortium.</para>

<para>Other parts of the &kdm; code are copyright by the authors, and
licenced under the terms of the <ulink url="common/gpl-license.html">GNU
GPL</ulink>. Anyone is allowed to change &kdm; and redistribute the result as
long as the names of the authors are mentioned.</para>

<para>&kdm; requires the Qt library, which is copyright Troll Tech AS.</para>

<para>Documentation contributors:
<itemizedlist>
<listitem><para>Documentation written by Steffen Hansen <email>stefh@dit.ou.dk</email></para></listitem>

<listitem><para>Documentation extended by Gregor Zumstein<email>zumstein@ssd.ethz.ch</email>. Last
update 1998/07/09</para></listitem>

<listitem><para>Documentation revised for KDE2 by Neal Crook<email>nac@forth.org</email>. Last
update 2000/07/06</para></listitem>
</itemizedlist></para>

<para>Documentation copyright Steffen Hansen, Gregor Zumstein and Neal Crook.</para>

<!-- TRANS:CREDIT_FOR_TRANSLATORS -->

&underFDL;
&underGPL;

</chapter>
</book>
<!--
Local Variables:
mode: sgml
sgml-omittag: nil
sgml-shorttag: t
End:
-->

