<sect1 id="accessibility">
<sect1info>

<authorgroup>
<author>
<firstname>Mike</firstname>
<surname>McBride</surname>
</author>
<!-- TRANS:ROLES_OF_TRANSLATORS -->
</authorgroup>

<date>2001-07-24</date>
<releaseinfo>2.20.00</releaseinfo>

<keywordset>
<keyword>KDE</keyword>
<keyword>KControl</keyword>
<keyword>accessibility</keyword>
</keywordset>
</sect1info>

<title>Accessibility</title>
<sect2 id="accessibility-intro">

<title>Introduction</title>

<para>This module is designed to help users who have difficulty hearing
audible cues, or who have difficulty using a keyboard or mouse.  </para>

<para>
The module is divided into three tabs: <link
linkend="access-bell"><guilabel>Bell</guilabel></link>, <link
linkend="access-kb"><guilabel>Keyboard</guilabel></link>, <link
linkend="access-mouse"><guilabel>Mouse</guilabel></link>.
</para>

<sect3 id="access-bell">
<title>Bell</title>

<para>
This panel is divided into an <guilabel>Audio Bell</guilabel> section
and a <guilabel>Visual Bell</guilabel> Section.
</para>

<para>
The top check box labelled <guilabel>System Bell</guilabel>, determines
whether the normal System bell rings.  If this option is disabled, the
System bell will be silenced.
</para>

<para>
The next check box down can be used to play a different sound whenever
the system bell is triggered.  To activate, place a mark in the check
box labelled <guilabel>Use customized bell</guilabel>, and enter the
complete pathname to the sound file in the blank labelled
<guilabel>Sound to Play</guilabel>.  If you want, you can select the
<guibutton>Browse</guibutton> button to navigate through your filesystem
to find the exact file.
</para>

<para>
For those users who have difficulty hearing the System bell, or those
users who have a silent computer, &kde; offers the Visual bell.  This
<quote>bell</quote> can be configured to invert the screen, or to flash
a color across the screen.
</para>

<para>
To use the visual bell, first place a mark in the check box labeled
<guilabel>Use visible bell</guilabel>.
</para>

<para>
You can then select between <guilabel>Invert Screen</guilabel>, or
<guilabel>Flash screen</guilabel>.  If you select Invert screen, all
colors on the screen will be reversed.  If you choose Flash color, you
can choose the color by pressing the button to the right of the
<guilabel>Flash Screen</guilabel> selction.
</para>

<para>
The slider bar can be used to adjust the duration of the visual bell.
</para>

</sect3>

<sect3 id="access-kb">
<title><guilabel>Keyboard</guilabel></title>

<para>There are three sections to this panel.</para>

<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Sticky Keys</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>
If this option is enabled, the user can press and release the &Shift;,
&Alt; or &Ctrl; keys, and then press another key to get a key combo
(example: <keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl; &Alt;
<keycap>Del</keycap></keycombo> could be done with &Ctrl; then &Alt;
then <keycap>Del</keycap>).
</para>

<para>
Also in this section is a checkbox labeled <guilabel>Lock Sticky
Keys</guilabel>.  If this checkbox is enabled, then the &Alt;, &Ctrl;,
and &Shift; keys stay <quote>selected</quote> until they are
<quote>de-selected</quote> by the user.
</para>

<para>
As an example:
</para>
<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term>With <guilabel>Lock Sticky Keys</guilabel> disabled:</term>
<listitem>
<para>The user types the &Shift; key, then presses the
<keycap>F</keycap> key.  The computer translates this into <keycombo
action="simul">&Shift;<keycap>F</keycap></keycombo>.  Now if the user
types a <keycap>p</keycap>, the computer interprets this as the letter p
(no shift).
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>With <guilabel>Lock Sticky Keys</guilabel> enabled:</term>
<listitem>
<para>
The user types the &Shift; key, then press the <keycap>F</keycap> key.
The computer translates this into <keycombo
action="simul">&Shift;<keycap>F</keycap></keycombo>.  Now if the user
types a <keycap>p</keycap>, the computer interprets this as the letter
<keycombo action="simul">&Shift;<keycap>P</keycap></keycombo>.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Slow keys</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>
If this option is enabled, the user must hold the key down for a
specified period of time (adjustable with the slider) before the
keystroke will be accepted). This helps prevent accidental keypresses.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Bounce keys</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>
If this option is enabled, the user must wait a specified delay
(configurable with the slider), before the next key press can be
accepted.  This prevents multiple key strokes from people with tremors.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>

</sect3>

<sect3 id="access-mouse">
<title><guilabel>Mouse Navigation</guilabel></title>

<para>
Keyboard navigation helps people who have difficulty with trackballs,
digital tablets and mice.  These users can now configure &kde; to use
the arrow keys on the numeric keypad as a replacement.
</para>

<para>
To enable this option, place a mark in the check box labeled
<guilabel>Move mouse with keyboard</guilabel>.
</para>

<para>
You can use the 5 sliders to adjust the <guilabel>Acceleration
delay</guilabel>, <guilabel>Repeat interval</guilabel>,
<guilabel>Acceleration time</guilabel>, <guilabel>Maximum
speed</guilabel> and <guilabel>Acceleration profile</guilabel> to your
comfort.
</para>

</sect3>
</sect2>

<sect2 id="access-author">
<title>Section Author</title>

<para>
This section written by Mike McBride <email>mpmcbride7@yahoo.com</email>
</para>

<!-- TRANS:CREDIT_FOR_TRANSLATORS -->
</sect2>
</sect1>

