<sect1 id="color">
<sect1info>

<authorgroup>
<author>
<firstname>Mike</firstname>
<surname>McBride</surname>
</author>
<author>
<firstname>Mark</firstname>
<surname>Donohoe</surname>
</author>

<author>
<firstname>Martin</firstname>
<surname>Jones</surname>
</author>
<!-- TRANS:ROLES_OF_TRANSLATORS -->
</authorgroup>

<date>2001-07-22</date>
<releaseinfo>2.20.00</releaseinfo>

<keywordset>
<keyword>KDE</keyword>
<keyword>KControl</keyword>
<keyword>color</keyword>
</keywordset>
</sect1info>

<title>Colors</title>
<sect2 id="color-intro">
<title>Introduction</title>

<para>The Color Selection module is comprised of 4 sections:</para>

<orderedlist>
<listitem><para><link linkend="kcmdisplay-preview">The color scheme
Preview</link>.</para></listitem>
<listitem><para><link linkend="kcmdisplay-widget-color">The current 
<guilabel>Widget
Color</guilabel></link>.</para>
</listitem>
<listitem><para><link linkend="kcmdisplay-contrast">The contrast
sliders</link>.</para></listitem>
<listitem><para><link linkend="kcmdisplay-color-schemes">The available Color
Schemes</link>.</para></listitem>
</orderedlist>

<note><para>A <emphasis>Widget</emphasis> is a commonly-used
programmer's term for referring to User Interface elements such as
buttons, menus, and scroll bars.  You can think of them as the
fundamental pieces that are assembled to make your
application.</para></note>

<sect3 id="kcmdisplay-preview">
<title>Preview</title>

<para>This section of the dialog demonstrates how a color scheme applies
to a sample selection of widgets. It provides you with a
<guilabel>preview</guilabel> of your current color choices.</para>

<para>A color scheme consists of a set of 18 colors. </para>

<para>Each of the widgets is labled to help you identify how your
changes will impact the color scheme.</para>

</sect3>

<sect3 id="kcmdisplay-widget-color">
<title><guilabel>Widget Color</guilabel></title>

<para>The currently selected member of the color scheme is shown in the
combo box. This widget color can be changed by clicking on the colored
box below the combo box. A color selection dialog will then appear, from
which you may select a new color. When you are happy with your color
selection, press <guibutton>Ok</guibutton> in the color selection
dialog.  The color will be updated in the Preview Area.</para>

<para>You may select any member of the color scheme from the 
color combination box.</para>

</sect3>

<sect3 id="kcmdisplay-contrast">
<title><guilabel>Contrast</guilabel> Slider</title>

<para>The <guilabel>Contrast</guilabel> slider allows you to change the
contrast bewteen different shadings of the selected colors.</para>

<para>The Preview area instantly updates to show the effect of your
change.</para>

</sect3>

<sect3 id="kcmdisplay-color-schemes">
<title><guilabel>Color schemes</guilabel></title>

<para>Various color schemes are supplied with &kde;. These include:</para>
<simplelist>
<member>&kde; default, </member>
<member>Atlas green</member>
<member>BeOS,</member>
<member>Blue slate,</member>
<member>CDE</member>
<member>Dark Blue, </member>
<member>Desert red,</member>
<member>Digital CDE,</member>
<member>Pale gray,</member>
<member>Pumpkin,</member>
<member>Solaris CDE,</member>
<member>Storm,</member>
<member>Redmond,</member>
<member>System, </member>
<member>Next, </member>
<member>Point Reyes Green, </member>
<member>Media Peach</member>
<member>EveX</member>
<member>and KDE 1.</member>
</simplelist>

<para>To preview a scheme click on its name in the list box. </para>

<para>You can use the &kde;-supplied Color Schemes as a starting point to
devise your own Scheme. Click on the <guibutton>Add</guibutton> button
to store the color scheme under a new name, then modify it. </para>

<para>When such a user-created Color Scheme is selected, changes to it
(as shown in the Preview) can be saved with the <guibutton>Save
Changes</guibutton> button; it can also be deleted with the
<guibutton>Remove</guibutton> button.</para>

<note><para>The &kde;-supplied Schemes themselves cannot be changed or
deleted.</para></note>

</sect3>
</sect2>

<sect2 id="color-author">
<title>Section Author</title>

<para>This section written by Mark Donohoe and Martin Jones.</para>
<para>Updated for KDE 2.0 by Mike McBride
<email>mpmcbride7@yahoo.com</email></para>

<!-- TRANS:CREDIT_FOR_TRANSLATORS -->

</sect2>
</sect1>


