<sect1 id="datetime">
<sect1info>

<authorgroup>
<author>
<firstname>Mike</firstname>
<surname>McBride</surname>
</author>
<!-- TRANS:ROLES_OF_TRANSLATORS -->
</authorgroup>

<date>2001-07-24</date>
<releaseinfo>2.20.00</releaseinfo>

<keywordset>
<keyword>KDE</keyword>
<keyword>KControl</keyword>
<keyword>date</keyword>
<keyword>time</keyword>
<keyword>configure</keyword>
</keywordset>
</sect1info>
<title>Date and Time</title>

<para>You can use this module to alter the system date and time, using a
convienent graphical interface.</para>

<note><para>You must have system administrator (<systemitem
class="username">root</systemitem>) access to change the system date and
time.  If you do not have this access level, this module will only show
you the current settings.</para></note>

<para>When you first start, you are in display mode only.  To modify
your settings, click on <guibutton>Modify</guibutton>.  If you are
logged in as root, you will go straight to the change dialog.  If not,
KDE will ask for a superuser password.</para>

<sect2 id="date-change">
<title>Modifying your settings</title>

<para>You set the date using the left half of the module.  Simply choose your
month (the drop down box at the top), year (the spin box at the top), and the
day of the month (simply click on the day in the calendar).</para>

<para>You set the time using the spin box at the bottom of the clock.  Simply
click in the hour, minutes or seconds box.  You can directly enter your value,
or you can click on the <guiicon>+</guiicon> or <guiicon>-</guiicon> buttons to
adjust that value up one value.</para>

<note><para>The time is represented in 24 hour format.  If you want the system
time to be set to 8:00 PM, you need to set the hour spinbox to
<guilabel>20</guilabel> (8 + 12).  If you want the system time set to 8:00 AM,
you should set the hour spinbox to <guilabel>8</guilabel>.</para></note>

<para>You can then click on the <guilabel>Time Zone</guilabel> tab.</para>
<para>Simply select your new timezone from the drop down box in the middle of
the screen </para>

<para>When you have set the correct date and time, simply click
<guibutton>Apply</guibutton> to make the changes permanent.</para>
</sect2>

<sect2 id="datetime-author">

<title>Section Author</title>
<para>Mike McBride <email>mpmcbride7@yahoo.com</email></para>

<!-- TRANS:CREDIT_FOR_TRANSLATORS -->
</sect2>
</sect1>

