<!-- <?xml version="1.0" ?>
<!DOCTYPE book PUBLIC "-//KDE//DTD DocBook XML V4.1-Based Variant V1.0//EN" "dtd/kdex.dtd"> -->
<sect1 id="dma">
<sect1info>

<authorgroup>
<author>

<firstname>Matthias</firstname>
<surname>H&ouml;lzer</surname>
</author>

<author>
<firstname>Helge</firstname>
<surname>Deller</surname>
</author>

<author>
<firstname>Duncan</firstname>
<surname>Haldane</surname>
</author>

<author>
<firstname>Mike</firstname>
<surname>McBride</surname>
</author>
<!-- TRANS:ROLES_OF_TRANSLATORS -->
</authorgroup>

<date>2001-07-22</date>
<releaseinfo>2.20.00</releaseinfo>

<keywordset>
<keyword>KDE</keyword>
<keyword>KControl</keyword>
<keyword>DMA</keyword>
<keyword>system information</keyword>
</keywordset>
</sect1info>

<title><acronym>DMA</acronym> Channel Information</title>

<para> This page displays information about the <acronym>DMA</acronym>
(Direct Memory Access) Channels.  A <acronym>DMA</acronym> channel is a
direct connection that allows devices to transfer data to and from
memory without going through the processor. Typically, i386-architecture
systems (<acronym>PC</acronym>'s) have eight <acronym>DMA</acronym>
channels (0-7).  </para>

<note> <para> The exact information displayed is system-dependent.  On
some systems, <acronym>DMA</acronym> Channel information cannot be
displayed yet.  </para> </note>

<para> On &Linux;, this information is read from <filename
class="devicefile">/proc/dma</filename>, which is only available if the
<filename class="directory">/proc</filename> pseudo-filesystem is
compiled into the kernel.  </para>

<para> A list of all currently-registered (<acronym>ISA</acronym> bus)
<acronym>DMA</acronym> channels that are in use is shown. The first
column shows the <acronym>DMA</acronym> channel, and the second column
shows the device which uses that channel.  </para>

<para>
Unused <acronym>DMA</acronym> channels are not listed.
</para>

<para>
The user cannot modify any settings on this page.
</para>

<sect2 id="dma-author">
<title>Section Authors</title>
<para>
Matthias H&ouml;lzer <email>hoelzer@kde.org</email>, 
Helge Deller <email>helge.deller@ruhruni-bochum.de</email>, 
Duncan Haldane <email>duncan@kde.org</email>,and
Michael McBride <email>mpmcbride7@yahoo.com</email></para>
<!-- TRANS:CREDIT_FOR_TRANSLATORS -->
</sect2>
</sect1>

