<sect1 id="ebrowse">

<sect1info>

<authorgroup>
<author>
<firstname>Krishna</firstname>
<surname>Tateneni</surname>
<affiliation><address><email>
tateneni@pluto.njcc.com
</email></address></affiliation>
</author>
<author>
<firstname>Yves</firstname>
<surname>Arrouye</surname>
<affiliation><address><email>
yves@realnames.com
</email></address></affiliation>
</author>
<!-- TRANS:ROLES_OF_TRANSLATORS -->
</authorgroup>

<date>2001-07-24</date>
<releaseinfo>2.20.00</releaseinfo>

<keywordset>
<keyword>KDE</keyword>
<keyword>KControl</keyword>
<keyword>enhanced browsing</keyword>
<keyword>browsing</keyword>
</keywordset>

</sect1info>

<title>Enhanced Browsing</title>

<sect2 id="ebrowse-intro">

<title>Introduction</title>

<para>&konqueror; offers some features to enhance your browsing
experience. Currently, two such features are <emphasis>Internet
Keywords</emphasis> and <emphasis>Web Shortcuts</emphasis>.</para>

<para>You may already have noticed that &kde; is very internet friendly.
For example, you can click on the <guimenuitem>Run</guimenuitem> menu
item or type the keyboard shortcut assigned to that command (<keycombo
action="simul"><keycap>Alt</keycap><keycap>F2</keycap></keycombo>,
unless you have changed it) and type in a <acronym>URI</acronym>.
<footnote><para>Uniform Resource Identifier. A standardized way of
referring to a resource such as a file on your computer, a world wide
web address, an email address,
<abbrev>etc...</abbrev>.</para></footnote></para>

<para>Internet Keywords make it easier for you to use well known names
such as brand names, celebrities names, etc. For example, instead of
typing <userinput>http://www.kde.org/</userinput>, you can just type
<userinput>KDE</userinput>, or even <userinput>K Desktop
Environment</userinput>.  The name you type will be resolved to a
<acronym>URI</acronym>, and you will be redirected to the appropriate
location.</para>

<para>Web shortcuts, on the other hand, let you come up with new pseudo
<acronym>URL</acronym> schemes, or shortcuts, that basically let you
<emphasis>parameterize</emphasis> commonly used
<acronym>URI</acronym>s. For example, if you like the Google search
engine, you can configure KDE so that a pseudo <acronym>URL</acronym>
scheme like <emphasis>gg</emphasis> will trigger a search on
Google. This way, typing <userinput>gg:<replaceable>my
query</replaceable></userinput> will search for <replaceable>my
query</replaceable> on Google.</para>

<note><para>One can see why we call these pseudo <acronym>URL</acronym>
schemes. They are used like a <acronym>URL</acronym> scheme, but the
input is not properly <acronym>URL</acronym> encoded, so one will type
<userinput>google:kde apps</userinput> and not
<userinput>google:kde+apps</userinput>.</para></note>

<para>You can use Internet Keywords in &kde; in interactive navigation
applications like <application>Konqueror</application>.  You can use web
shortcuts wherever you would normally use
<acronym>URI</acronym>s. Shortcuts for several search engines should
already be configured on your system, but you can add new keywords, and
change or delete existing ones in the enhanced browsing control
module. </para>

</sect2>

<sect2 id="ebrowse-use">

<title>Use</title>

<para>There is a single tab in this control module. The title of the tab
is <guilabel>Keywords</guilabel>. This tab features two main boxes, one
for Internet Keywords and one for web shortcuts.</para>

<sect3 id="ebrowse-ikw-use">

<title>Internet Keywords</title>

<para>The top of the dialog has a checkbox labeled <guilabel>Enable
Internet Keywords</guilabel>. If this option is selected, you can use
Internet Keywords in KDE.</para>

<para>Also at the top of the dialog, there is a dropdown list of all the
known web shortcuts, which is labeled <guilabel>Search
Fallback</guilabel>. You can either select one of the shortcuts from the
list or leave it at <guilabel>None</guilabel>. If you select a web
shortcut here, whenever you type something that is not an Internet
Keyword, your input will be passed to the selected web shortcut. This
provides a very pleasant navigation and search experience, where
Internet Keywords provide direct navigation, and you are in control of
how to search for information when the Internet Keywords database does
not contain the name you type. (If you select <guilabel>None</guilabel>
then a directory listing of relevant Internet Keywords is provided
instead.)  Also, if you type something that starts with a question mark,
as in <userinput>?  KDE</userinput>, your input is directly passed to
the web shortcut after stripping the question mark off, bypassing
Internet Keywords entirely. This is useful when you really intend to do
a search on your favorite search engine.</para>

</sect3>

<sect3 id="ebrowse-srch-use">

<title>Web Shortcuts</title>

<para>The descriptive names of defined web shortcuts are shown in a
listbox. You may have to use the horizontal scrollbar and move to the
right side of the list to see the actual keywords associated with the
descriptive names. As with other lists in KDE, you can click on a column
heading to toggle the sort order between ascending and
descending.</para>

<para>If you click on a specific entry in the list of defined search
providers, the details for that entry are shown in text boxes which are
located immediately to the right of the list. In addition to the
descriptive name for the item, you can also see the
<acronym>URI</acronym> which is used, as well as the associated
shortcuts which you can type anywhere in &kde; where
<acronym>URI</acronym>s are expected. A given search provider can have
multiple shortcuts, separated by a comma.</para>

<para> The text boxes are used not only for displaying information about
an item in the list of web shortcuts, but also for modifying or adding
new items. Notice that there are two buttons below the text
boxes. Initially, these buttons have the captions
<guibutton>Change</guibutton> and <guibutton>Delete</guibutton>, and the
first of these buttons is disabled. Clicking the
<guibutton>Delete</guibutton> button has the expected effect of removing
the currently selected item from the list of web shortcuts.</para>

<para>If you change the contents of either the <guilabel>Search
URI</guilabel> or the <guilabel>URI Shortcuts</guilabel> text box, the
button labeled <guibutton>Change</guibutton> will be enabled so that you
may save the changes you have made. On the other hand, if you change the
contents of the <guilabel>Search Provider Name</guilabel> text box, the
<guilabel>Change</guilabel> button will be replaced by an
<guibutton>Add</guibutton> button so that you may create a new entry in
the list of web shortcuts.</para>

<para>If you examine the contents of the <guilabel>Search URI</guilabel>
text box, you will find that most, if not all of the entries have a
<option>\1</option> in them. This sequence of two characters acts as a
parameter, which is to say that they are replaced by whatever you happen
to type after the colon character that is between a shortcut and its
parameter. Let's consider some examples to clarify this idea.</para>

<para>Suppose that the <acronym>URI</acronym> is
<userinput>http://www.google.com/search?q=\1</userinput>, and
<userinput>gg</userinput> is a shortcut to this
<acronym>URI</acronym>. Then, typing
<userinput>gg:<replaceable>alpha</replaceable></userinput> is equivalent
to
<userinput>http://www.google.com/search?q=<replaceable>alpha</replaceable></userinput>.
You could type anything after the <userinput>:</userinput> character;
whatever you have typed simply replaces the <option>\1</option>
characters, after being converted to the appropriate character set for
the search provider and then properly
<acronym>URL</acronym>-encoded. Only the <option>\1</option> part of the
search <acronym>URI</acronym> is touched, the rest of it is supposed to
be properly <acronym>URL</acronym>-encoded already and is left as
is.</para>

<para>You can also have shortcuts without parameters. Suppose the
<acronym>URI</acronym> was
<emphasis>file:/home/me/mydocs/kofficefiles/kword</emphasis> and the
shortcut was <emphasis>mykword</emphasis>. Then, typing
<userinput>mykword:</userinput> is the same as typing the complete
<acronym>URI</acronym>. Note that there is nothing after the colon when
typing the shortcut, but the colon is still required in order for the
shortcut to be recognized as such.</para>

<para>By now, you will have understood that even though these shortcuts
are called web shortcuts, they really are shortcuts to parameterized
<acronym>URI</acronym>s, which can point not only to web sites like
search engines but also to anything else that can be pointed to by a
<acronym>URI</acronym>. Web shortcuts are a very powerful feature of
navigation in KDE.</para>

</sect3>

</sect2>


<sect2 id="ebrowse-author">

<title>Section Author</title>

<para>This section written by
Krishna Tateneni
<email>tateneni@pluto.njcc.com</email>
and Yves Arrouye
<email>yves@realnames.com</email>
</para>

<!-- TRANS:CREDIT_FOR_TRANSLATORS -->

</sect2>

</sect1>

