<sect1 id="energy">
<sect1info>

<authorgroup>
<author>
<firstname>Mike</firstname>
<surname>McBride</surname>
</author>
<!-- TRANS:ROLES_OF_TRANSLATORS -->
</authorgroup>

<date>2001-07-24</date>
<releaseinfo>2.20.00</releaseinfo>

<keywordset>
<keyword>KDE</keyword>
<keyword>KControl</keyword>
<keyword>energy</keyword>
</keywordset>
</sect1info>
<title>Energy</title>

<sect2 id="energy-intro">
<title>Introduction</title>

<para>This module is useful for any computer having a monitor labeled Energy Star
Compliant.  (Energy Star Compliant equipment is equipment that can be configured
to automatically enter a power saving mode when appropriate, without human
intervention.)</para>

<tip><para>Energy Star Compliance can be applied to nearly any electrical
device.  This module, however, does not spin down hard drives, does not shutdown
printers, <abbrev>etc.</abbrev> These settings only affect the behavior of your
monitor.</para><para>For information on shutting down components on a laptop, do
not use this module.  Instead, refer to the module entitled <link
linkend="powerctrl">Laptop Power Control Center</link>, for
details.</para></tip>

<para>In the case of computer monitors, the computer can control the monitor,
switching it between 4 states: On, Standby, Suspend, and Off.</para>

<note><para>The following lists of states is a generalization, and you may find
that your monitor will differ from the descriptions below.</para></note>

<para>"ON", is the normal operation of your monitor while you are using
it.</para>

<para>"STANDBY" is usually a minor power saving level.  This setting
usually involves blanking the screen, and not firing the electron gun,
but keeping the electron gun "energized" and ready to go. When you need
to use the monitor again, the monitor will come back on very
quickly.</para>

<para>"SUSPEND" mode, is a very low power alternative. With most
monitors, the screen is blanked, the electron gun is shut down, and the
magnets that control the electron gun are powered down.  While the power
saving is substantial, to reactivate the monitor may take up to 10-15
seconds.  The computer should always be able to return the monitor to On
or Standby while in suspend mode..</para>

<para>"OFF", usually means just that.  The computer monitor is turned
off.  This usually means that the computer will not be able to turn the
monitor back on by itself.  Obviously, this keeps power consumption to a
bare minimum (zero).</para>

</sect2>
<sect2 id="energy-use">
<title>Use</title>

<para>To use this module, is very simple:</para>

<para>If your monitor is Energy Star Compliant, then you should put a
mark in the check box labeled "<guilabel>Enable Display Energy
Saving</guilabel>".  This will activate the Energy saving
commands. </para>

<para>The next three slider bars, tell the computer how many minutes of
inactivity before automatically switching to a new state.  These numbers
can be adjusted with either the sliders, or the spin boxes.</para>

<note><para>These times are not additive, but all start counting at
zero.</para> 

<para>As an example:</para> 

<para>If you set the Standby Mode to 10 minutes, the Suspend mode to 20
minutes, and the Power off at 30 minutes, and you stop using your
computer at 9:00, then the monitor will:</para> <para>Enter Standby mode
at 9:10, enter Suspend mode at 9:20, and shut the power off at
9:30</para></note>

<para>When you are happy with the settings, click
"<guibutton>OK</guibutton>".</para>

</sect2>

<sect2 id="energy-author">
<title>Section Author</title>
<para>Mike McBride <email>mpmcbride7@yahoo.com</email></para>
<!-- TRANS:CREDIT_FOR_TRANSLATORS -->


</sect2>
</sect1>

