<sect1 id="e-mail">

<sect1info>
<authorgroup>
<author>
<firstname>Krishna</firstname>
<surname>Tateneni</surname>
<affiliation><address><email>
tateneni@pluto.njcc.com
</email></address></affiliation>
</author>
<!-- TRANS:ROLES_OF_TRANSLATORS -->
</authorgroup>

<date>2001-07-23</date>
<releaseinfo>2.20.00</releaseinfo>

<keywordset>
<keyword>KDE</keyword>
<keyword>KControl</keyword>
<keyword>email</keyword>
<keyword>e-mail</keyword>
</keywordset>

</sect1info>

<title>E-Mail</title>


<sect2 id="email-intro">
<title>Introduction</title>

<para>The e-mail module of the &kcontrol; allows you to enter and save some
basic e-mail information. This information is used when performing functions
related to e-mail within &kde;, for example, when sending bug reports from the
&kde; crash handler application.</para>

<para>Programs such as &kmail;, which are used for reading and sending
e-mail, may offer many more options for customizing the way in which
e-mail is handled. These options depend upon the specific program being
used.  &kmail;, for instance, offers its own configuration
facilities.</para>

<para>Some of the information needed for configuring e-mail should have
been provided by your internet service provider
(<acronym>ISP</acronym>). If you are connected to a local network, then
the system administrator of your network should be able to help
you.</para>

</sect2>

<sect2 id="email-use">
<title>Use</title>

<para>There are two areas of configuration in this module.  To help you
get started, some of the fields are automatically filled in using the
login information on the system.  Looking at the page from top to
bottom, these areas are:</para>

<variablelist>

<!-- <varlistentry>
<term>Profiles:</term>
<listitem><para>Profiles are different <quote>sets</quote> of email
configuration, which you can &eg; use if you send mail via different providers
or if you have to send private as well as business mails. Profiles then allow
you to use different settings, &eg; for your Name or Organization. You can
either choose a profile (using the <guilabel>Current profile</guilabel> combo
box) to change its settings, or you can create a new profile by clicking
<guibutton>New Profile...</guibutton>. If you create a new profile, you will be
prompted for a name. </para></listitem>
</varlistentry> -->

<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>User Information</guilabel>:</term>
<listitem><para>Details for the user currently logged in.</para>
<para>In the text box labeled <guilabel>Full Name</guilabel>,
type your full name as you would like it to appear in the e-mail
messages that you send. If you work for a company or
organization, you can enter its name in the text box labeled
<guilabel>Organization</guilabel>.</para>

<para>To be able to use e-mail, you must enter your e-mail
address in the text box labeled <guilabel>e-mail address</guilabel>.
If replies to your e-mail messages should be sent to a different
address, you can enter that address in the text box labeled
<guilabel>Reply Address</guilabel>. Usually, however, this text
box should simply be left blank, and replies will go to your
e-mail address as typed.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Preferred e-mail Client</guilabel>:</term>
<listitem><para>The e-mail program which you use to send and
receive e-mail (there may be more than one available on your
system.)</para>
<para>The default e-mail program is <application>KMail</application>,
but you can change this either by typing the name of the program
in the provided text box, or by clicking on the
<guilabel>Browse...</guilabel> button, and selecting the
program using the dialog box that pops up.</para>
<para>If the program you want to use for e-mail is a console or
text-based application (for example, the
<application>Pine</application> e-mail program), check the
<guilabel>Run in terminal</guilabel> option.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<!-- 
<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Incoming Mail</guilabel>:</term>
<listitem><para>The internet protocol used by the server which
receives e-mail for you.</para>
<para>Your incoming mail server may use either the
<acronym>IMAP</acronym> or the <acronym>POP3</acronym> protocol for
e-mail messages. Again, your <acronym>ISP</acronym> should have
provided this information. If you are connected to a local network
which handles your e-mail for you, select <guilabel>Local
Mailbox</guilabel> instead. Click <guibutton>Incoming mailbox
settings...</guibutton> to configure the host information.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
--> 

<!-- 
<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Outgoing Mail</guilabel>:</term>
<listitem><para>The internet protocol used to deliver outgoing
email.</para>
<para>You may either choose <guilabel>SMTP</guilabel> or <guilabel>Local
Delivery</guilabel>. Click <guibutton>Outgoing mailbox settings...</guibutton> to
configure the host information.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
--> 

</variablelist>

<!-- <para>When you click <guibutton>Incoming mailbox settings...</guibutton>
or <guibutton>Outgoing mailbox settings...</guibutton>, a dialog will
pop up where you can enter all information necessary to use a specific
mail server. If you are connected to a local network, and e-mail is
handled locally, you probably won't need to do anything to configure the
server.</para> -->

<para>Your <acronym>ISP</acronym> should have given you a user name and
a password to log into the e-mail server. Often, the user name is the
same as the part of the e-mail address that comes before the
<literal>@</literal> character. </para>

<!-- <para>In addition to your user name and password, you will also
need to enter the name of the mail server. Sometimes, the same server
is used for both sending and receiving mail, but more often than not,
your <acronym>ISP</acronym> gives different host names for sending and
receiving. The outgoing host may be called the <acronym>SMTP</acronym>
server, while the incoming host may be called the <acronym>POP</acronym>
server or <abbrev>IMAP</abbrev> server.</para> -->

</sect2>

<sect2 id="email-author">
<title>Section Author</title>

<para>This section written by:</para>
<para>Krishna Tateneni
<email>tateneni@pluto.njcc.com</email>.</para>
<para>Updated by Jost Schenck <email>jost@schenck.de</email>.</para>
<!-- TRANS:CREDIT_FOR_TRANSLATORS -->

</sect2>

</sect1>
