<sect1 id="fonts">
<sect1info>

<authorgroup>
<author>
<firstname>Mike</firstname>
<surname>McBride</surname>
</author>
<!-- TRANS:ROLES_OF_TRANSLATORS -->
</authorgroup>

<date>2000-10-21</date>
<releaseinfo>1.00.00</releaseinfo>

<keywordset>
<keyword>KDE</keyword>
<keyword>KControl</keyword>
<keyword>fonts</keyword>
</keywordset>
</sect1info>

<title>Fonts</title>

<para>This module is designed to allow you to easily select different
fonts for different parts of the KDE Desktop.</para>

<para>The panel consists of 7 different font groups to give you a lot of
flexibiliity in configuring your fonts:  </para>

<itemizedlist>
<listitem><para><guilabel>General</guilabel> (Used everywhere the other font
groups don't apply)</para></listitem>

<listitem><para><guilabel>Fixed width</guilabel> (Anywhere a
non-proportional font is specified)</para></listitem>

<listitem><para><guilabel>Desktop Icon</guilabel> (Fonts to use for
Desktop icon text) </para></listitem>

<listitem><para><guilabel>File Manager</guilabel> (Font to use in the
&kde; file manager)</para></listitem>

<listitem><para><guilabel>Toolbar</guilabel> (Font used in &kde; application
toolbars)</para></listitem>

<listitem><para><guilabel>Menu</guilabel> (Font used in &kde; application
menus)</para></listitem>

<listitem><para><guilabel>Window Title</guilabel> (Font used in the window
title)</para></listitem>
</itemizedlist>

<para>Each font has a corresponding <guibutton>choose</guibutton>
button.  By clicking on this button, a dialog box appears.  You can use
this dialog box to choose a new font, font style, size and character
set.  Then press <guibutton>OK</guibutton>.</para>

<para>An example of the font you have chosen will be displayed in the space
between the font group name and the choose button.</para>

<para>When you are done, simply click <guibutton>OK</guibutton>, and
all necessary components of &kde; will be restarted so your changes can
take affect immediatly.</para>

<para>Finally, there is a check box to enable Anti Aliasing for fonts.
The ability to use Anti Aliased fonts and icons requires that you have
support in both X and the &Qt; toolkit, and that you have suitable fonts
installed, and are using the built in font serving capabilities of the X
server.  If you still are having problems, please contact the
appropriate &kde; mailing list, or check the
<acronym>FAQ</acronym>.</para>

<sect2 id="fonts-author">
<title>Section Author</title>

<para>This section written by Mike McBride
<email>mpmcbride7@yahoo.com</email> </para>

<para>Slightly updated for &kde; 2.2 by Lauri Watts
<email>lauri@kde.org</email></para>

<!-- TRANS:CREDIT_FOR_TRANSLATORS -->

</sect2>
</sect1>

