<sect1 id="ioports">
<sect1info>

<authorgroup>
<author>
<firstname>Matthias</firstname>
<surname>H&ouml;lzer</surname>
</author>
<author>
<firstname>Helge</firstname>
<surname>Deller</surname>
</author>
<author>
<firstname>Duncan</firstname>
<surname>Haldane</surname>
</author>
<author>
<firstname>Mike</firstname>
<surname>McBride</surname>
</author>
<!-- TRANS:ROLES_OF_TRANSLATORS -->
</authorgroup>

<date>2001-07-22</date>
<releaseinfo>2.20.00</releaseinfo>

<keywordset>
<keyword>KDE</keyword>
<keyword>KControl</keyword>
<keyword>ioports</keyword>
<keyword>system information</keyword>
</keywordset>
</sect1info>
<title>Input/Output Port Information</title>

<para>This page displays information about the I/O-ports.</para>

<para>I/O Ports are memory addresses used by the processor for direct
communication with a device that has sent an
interrupt signal to the processor.</para>

<para>The exchange of commands or data between the processor and the device
takes place through the I/O port address of the device, which is a
 hexadecimal
number.  No two devices can share the same I/O port.  Many devices use
 multiple
I/O port addresses, which are expressed as a range of hexadecimal
numbers. </para>

<note><para>The exact information displayed is system-dependent. On some
systems, I/O-port information can not yet be displayed.</para></note>

<para>On &Linux;, this information is read from <filename
class="devicefile">/proc/ioports</filename> which is only available if
the <filename class="devicefile">/proc</filename> pseudo-filesystem is
compiled into the kernel.  A list of all currently-registered I/O port
regions that are in use is shown.</para>

<para>The first column is the I/O port (or the range of I/O ports), the
second column identifies the device that uses these I/O ports.</para>

<para>The user cannot modify any settings on this page.</para>

<sect2 id="ioports-author"> 
<title>Section Authors</title> 

<para> Matthias H&ouml;lzer <email>hoelzer@kde.org</email>, Helge Deller
<email>helge.deller@ruhruni-bochum.de</email>, Duncan Haldane
<email>duncan@kde.org</email>,and Michael McBride
<email>mpmcbride7@yahoo.com</email></para>
<!-- TRANS:CREDIT_FOR_TRANSLATORS -->


</sect2>
</sect1>

