<sect1 id="kbd">
<sect1info>

<authorgroup>
<author>
<firstname>Mike</firstname>
<surname>McBride</surname>
</author>
<!-- TRANS:ROLES_OF_TRANSLATORS -->
</authorgroup>

<date>2001-07-22</date>
<releaseinfo>2.20.00</releaseinfo>

<keywordset>
<keyword>KDE</keyword>
<keyword>KControl</keyword>
<keyword>keyboard</keyword>
</keywordset>
</sect1info>
<title>Keyboard</title>

<para>This module allows you to choose how your keyboard works.</para> 

<para>The actual effect of setting these options depends upon the
features provided by your keyboard hardware and the X server on which
&kde; is running.  As an example, you may find that changing the key
click volume has no effect because that feature is not available on your
system. </para>

<sect2>
<title>Layout</title>

<para>Here you can select the keyboard layouts available to you from
&kde;, or you can disable alternative keyboard layouts entirely, by
checking the <guilabel>Disable keyboard layouts</guilabel> box.</para>

<para>The first option available is to select your physical
<guilabel>Keyboard Model</guilabel>.</para>

<para>Next you can select the <guilabel>Primary Layout</guilabel> you
wish to use, which would normally be the physical layout of keys on the
keyboard.</para>

<para>You can enable additional keyboard layouts below this.  You can
select as many from the list as you like.</para>

<para>If you enable additional layouts, you will find a new icon
embedded in your panel system tray.  This will initially be set to your
primary layout.  You can right click on this icon to choose any of the
additional layouts you have selected in this module, or choose the
<guimenuitem>Configure</guimenuitem> from the menu to reopen the module
to change your settings.</para>

</sect2>

<sect2 id="kbd-use">
<title>Advanced</title>

<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Keyboard Repeat</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>When this option is selected, pressing and holding down a key
emits the same character repeatedly until the key is released.  Pressing
and holding the key will have the same effect as pressing it multiple
times in succession.  </para>
<tip><para> Almost all users will want to have this option enabled, because it
makes navigating through documents with the arrow keys significantly
easier. </para></tip>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Key Click Volume</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>If supported, this option allows you to hear audible clicks from
your computer's speakers when you press the keys on your keyboard. In
essence, this simulates the <quote>click</quote> of a mechanical
type-writer. You can change the loudness of the key click feedback by
dragging the slider button or by clicking the up/down arrows on the
spin-button. Setting the volume to 0% turns off the key
click.</para>
<para>Many computers won't support this function.</para>
<tip><para>Very few people would choose to enable this option, since it
generally annoys everyone else in the room. However, if your heart
yearns for the pre-soft-key era, this may help you to re-experience the
warm sentimentality of days-gone-by.</para>
</tip>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>NumLock on KDE Startup</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>You can choose to either always <guilabel>Turn on</guilabel> or
<guilabel>Turn off</guilabel> the NumLock when &kde; starts, or you can
choose to have &kde; leave NumLock at whatever it was set to before KDE
started up.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>

</sect2>

<sect2 id="kbd-author"><title>Section Author</title>

<para>Ellis Whitehead <email>kde@ellisw.net</email></para>

<para>Updated for &kde; 2.2 by Lauri Watts
<email>lauri@kde.org</email></para>

<!-- TRANS:CREDIT_FOR_TRANSLATORS -->
</sect2>
</sect1>

