<sect1 id="konsole">
<sect1info> 

<authorgroup>
<author>
<firstname>Jonathan</firstname>
<surname>Singer</surname>
<affiliation><address>
<email>jsinger@leeta.net</email>
</address></affiliation>
</author>
<!-- TRANS:ROLES_OF_TRANSLATORS -->
</authorgroup>

<date>2001-07-12</date>
<releaseinfo>2.20.0</releaseinfo>

<keywordset>
<keyword>KDE</keyword>
<keyword>KControl</keyword>
<keyword>konsole</keyword>
<keyword>terminal</keyword>
</keywordset>
</sect1info>

<title>&konsole;</title>

<para>In this module, you can configure basic settings for &konsole;,
the &kde; terminal.  You can also easily create new schemata (appearance
files) for &konsole;.</para>

<para>This module contains two tab pages: <guilabel>General</guilabel>
and <guilabel>Schema</guilabel>.</para>

<sect2>
<title><guilabel>General</guilabel></title>

<para>This tab page allows you to configure aspects of &konsole;'s
functions.  It contains the following options:</para>

<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Misc</guilabel></term>
<listitem>

<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Do not use Konsole as default terminal
application</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>If you wish to have &kde; use another terminal application by
default, check this box and enter the preferred application
(<application>wterm</application>, <application>rxvt</application>,
&etc;) in the text field below.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Codec</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>Not implemented yet.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Warn for Open Session on Quit</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>When set, a warning appears when you try to close a  &konsole;
window with multiple sessions.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>History</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>Check the box to enable the saving of the session's history.  This
allows you to review lines that have scrolled out of the top of the
window, up to a pre-set maximum (1000 lines by default.)</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>

</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Layout</guilabel></term>
<listitem>

<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Font</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>Use the drop-down box to select the default font size.  Use the
<guibutton>Custom...</guibutton> button to select your own combination
of font, size, and style.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Full Screen</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>Check the box to make &konsole; windows full-screen by
default.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Bars</guilabel></term>
<listitem>

<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Show menubar</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>Check to show the menubar by default.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Show toolbar</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>Check to show the toolbar by default.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Show frame</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>Check to show the frame by default.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Scrollbar position</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>Select the default position of the scrollbar:
<guilabel>Hide</guilabel> (on scrollbar), <guilabel>Left</guilabel>, or
<guilabel>Right</guilabel>.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>
</sect2>

<sect2>
<title>Schema</title>

<para>The <guilabel>Schema</guilabel> page will alow you to easily
create, edit, and save schemata, with text and background coloring,
transparency, and background images.</para>

<para>Not yet documented</para>

</sect2>

<sect2 id="konsole-author">
<title>Section Author</title>

<para>Jonathan Singer <email>jsinger@leeta.net</email></para>

</sect2>

</sect1>
