<sect1 id="konq-browsing">


<sect1info>

<authorgroup>
<author>
<firstname>Krishna</firstname>
<surname>Tateneni</surname>
<affiliation><address><email>
tateneni@pluto.njcc.com
</email></address></affiliation>
</author>
<!-- TRANS:ROLES_OF_TRANSLATORS -->
</authorgroup>

<date>2001-07-24</date>
<releaseinfo>2.20.00</releaseinfo>

<keywordset>
<keyword>KDE</keyword>
<keyword>KControl</keyword>
<keyword>konqueror</keyword>
<keyword>browsing</keyword>
</keywordset>

</sect1info>

<title>Browsing With &konqueror;</title>

<para>The &konqueror; Browser module of &kcontrol; allows you to select
various options for the appearance and behavior of &konqueror;, the
integrated web browser of &kde;.</para>

<para>There are five main tabs in this control center module, which are
described in detail in the following sections. Briefly, the five tabs
are:</para>

<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>HTML</guilabel>:</term>
<listitem><para>Options for handling of links and images in
<abbrev>HTML</abbrev> pages.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Appearance</guilabel>:</term>
<listitem><para>Options for the fonts used in displaying web
pages.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Java</guilabel>:</term>
<listitem><para>Options for handling Java code embedded in web pages, as
well as the security policies to be applied to such code.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>JavaScript</guilabel>:</term>
<listitem>
<para>Options for handling JavaScript code embedded in web pages.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Plugins</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>Options about Plugins</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>

<sect2 id="kbrowse-html">

<title>HTML</title>

<para>The first option you can enable on this page is <guilabel>Enable
completion of forms</guilabel>.  If you check this box, &konqueror; will
try to remember what you answer to form questions, and will try to fill
in forms for you with the answers you previously used.</para>

<para>You can configure the number of form items &konqueror; remembers
with the slider below labelled <guilabel>Maximum
completions</guilabel></para>

<note><para>Of course, anything &konqueror; fills in a form with, you
can still edit before submitting the form!</para></note>

<para>The next setting is <guilabel>Underline links</guilabel>. /ou can
choose to underline links <guilabel>Always</guilabel>.  If this option
is selected, any text on web pages that acts as a link will be shown in
an underlined font. While many web pages do use color to distinguish
text that acts as a link, underlining makes it very easy to spot
links.</para>

<para>If you don't like underlined links, you can choose
<guilabel>Never</guilabel>, so that no links are underlined.  Or you can
choose a middle ground, <guilabel>Hover</guilabel>, so that links are
underlined when the mouse cursor is resting over them, and not
underlined the rest of the time.</para>

<para>Finally there are two last checkbox options. The first is
<guilabel>Change cursor over links</guilabel>. If this option is
selected, the shape of the cursor will change (usually to a hand)
whenever it moves over a hyperlink. This makes it easy to identify
links, especially when they are in the form of images.</para>


<para>Finally, the checkbox labeled <guilabel>Automatically load
images</guilabel>, allows you to control whether images on web pages are
loaded by default. Unless you have a very slow connection, you will
probably want to leave this option selected, as there are many web pages
that are difficult to use without images. If you don't select the option
to automatically load images, you can still view the text on the page,
and then load the images if you need them.</para>

</sect2>

<sect2 id="kbrowse-appearance">

<title>Appearance</title>

<para>Under this tab, you can select various options related to the use
of fonts. Although the shapes and sizes of fonts are often part of the
design of a web page, you can select some default settings for
&konqueror; to use.</para>

<para>The first thing you can set here is the font size.  There are two
settings which work together to allow you a comfortable browsing
experience.</para>

<para>Firstly, you can set a <guilabel>Minimum Font Size</guilabel>.
This means, even if the font size is set specifically in the page you
are viewing, &konqueror; will ignore that instruction and never show
smaller fonts than you set here.</para>

<para>Next you can set a <guilabel>Medium Font Size</guilabel>.  This is
not only the default size of text, used when the page doesn't specify
sizes, but it is also used as the base size that relative font sizes are
calculated against.  That is, the <acronym>HTML</acronym> instruction
<quote>smaller</quote>, it means smaller than the size you set for this
option.</para>

<para>For either option, you can select the exact font size in points by
using the up/down spin control (or just typing) next to the option
label.</para>

<para>The remaining options are for the fonts to be associated with
different types of markup used in <acronym>HTML</acronym> pages. Note
that many web pages may override these settings. If you click anywhere
on a control which shows a font name, a list of font names appears, and
you can select a different font if you like. (If there are a lot of
fonts, a vertical scrollbar appears in the list to allow you to scroll
through all of the fonts.)</para>

<para>You can set a font for each <quote>type</quote> of markup, for
each <guilabel>Charset</guilabel>, by changing the character set in the
first drop down box, and then selecting a font for each category below.
This would take quite some time, so you may just want to set up the
fonts for your default character set.  Most English speaking users will
use iso8859-1</para>

<para>Below this, you can set a <guilabel>Font size adjustment for this
encoding</guilabel>.  Sometimes the fonts you want to use for a
particular encoding or language are much larger or smaller than average,
so you can use this setting to bring them into line.</para>

<para>You can set a default encoding that &konqueror; should assume
pages are when rendering them.  The default setting is <guilabel>Use
language encoding</guilabel>, but you can change it to any encoding
available in the list.  You can even force the use of your default
encoding using the <guilabel>Enforce default Encoding
charset</guilabel>, in which case &konqueror; will ignore any language
or charset from the page or server, and will use your setting.</para>

<warning>
<para>This setting could render many pages completely unreadable. You
should probably only select it if you are sure it's the correct solution
to any problems you are having.</para>
</warning>

</sect2>

<sect2 id="kbrowse-java">

<title>Java</title>

<para>Java allows applications to be downloaded and run by a web
browser, provided you have the necessary software installed on your
machine. Many web sites make use of Java (for example, online banking
services or interactive gaming sites). You should be aware that running
programs from unknown sources could pose a threat to the security of
your computer, even if the potential extent of the damage is not
great.</para>

<para>The checkboxes under <guilabel>Global Settings</guilabel> allows
you to turn Java support on for all web sites by default. You can also
select to turn Java on or off for specific hosts. To add a policy for a
specific host, click the <guilabel>Add...</guilabel> button to bring up
a dialog in which you can type the host name and then choose to accept
or reject Java code from that particular host, which will add the domain
to the list on the left of the page.</para>

<para>You can select a host in the list, and click the
<guilabel>Change...</guilabel> button to choose a different policy for
that host. Clicking the <guilabel>Delete</guilabel> button removes the
policy for the selected host; after deletion, the global settings will
then apply to that host. You can import policies from a file by clicking
the <guilabel>Import...</guilabel> button. To save the current list to a
compressed archive file, click the <guilabel>Export...</guilabel>
button.</para>

<para>Finally, the group of controls labeled <guilabel>Java Runtime
Settings</guilabel> allows you to set some options for the way in which
Java should run. If you select the <guilabel>Show Java
Console</guilabel> option, &konqueror; will open a console window from
which Java applications can read and write text. While most Java
applications will not require such a console, it could be helpful in
diagnosing problems with Java applications.</para>

<para>The <guilabel>Shutdown Applet Server when inactive</guilabel>
checkbox allows you to save resources by closing the Java Applet Server
when it is not in use, rather than leaving it running in the
background.  Leaving this disabled may make Java applets start up
faster, but it will use system resources when you are not using a Java
applet.  If you enable this, you can set a timeout.</para>

<para>You can either opt to have &konqueror; automatically detect the
Java installation on your system, or specify the path to the
installation yourself by selecting <guilabel>Use user-specified
Java</guilabel>. You may want to choose the latter method, for instance,
if you have multiple Java installations on your system, and want to
specify which one to use. If the Java Virtual Machine you are using
requires any special startup options, you can type them in the text box
labeled <guilabel>Additional Java Arguments</guilabel>.</para>

</sect2>

<sect2 id="kbrowse-javascript">
<title>JavaScript</title>

<para>Despite the name, JavaScript is not related at all to Java.</para>

<para>The first part of this page works the same as the Java page
settings.</para>

<para>The checkboxes under <guilabel>Global Settings</guilabel> allows
you to turn JavaScript support on for all web sites by default. You can
also select to turn JavaScript on or off for specific hosts. To add a
policy for a specific host, click the <guilabel>Add...</guilabel> button
to bring up a dialog in which you can type the host name and then choose
to accept or reject JavaScript code from that particular host, which
will add the domain to the list on the left of the page.</para>

<para>You can select a host in the list, and click the
<guilabel>Change...</guilabel> button to choose a different policy for
that host. Clicking the <guilabel>Delete</guilabel> button removes the
policy for the selected host; after deletion, the global settings will
then apply to that host. You can import policies from a file by clicking
the <guilabel>Import...</guilabel> button. To save the current list to a
compressed archive file, click the <guilabel>Export...</guilabel>
button.</para>

<para>The final set of options on this page determine what happens when
a page uses JavaScript to try to open a new window.  You can set
&konqueror; to <guilabel>Allow</guilabel> all such requests,
<guilabel>Ask</guilabel> each time a request is made, or
<guilabel>Deny</guilabel> all popup requests.</para>

</sect2>

<sect2>
<title>Plugins</title>

<para>There is currently only one option on this page: <guilabel>Enable
Plugins globally</guilabel>.  If you disable this checkbox, then &konqueror;
will not use any plugins.  If you enable it, then any installed and
configured plugins that it can find will be used by &konqueror;</para>
</sect2>

<sect2 id="kbrowse-author">

<title>Section Author</title>

<para>This section written by: </para>
<para>Krishna Tateneni
<email>tateneni@pluto.njcc.com</email>.</para>

<para>Additional material by Lauri Watts
<email>lauri@kde.org</email></para>

<!-- TRANS:CREDIT_FOR_TRANSLATORS -->

</sect2>

</sect1>

