<sect1 id="window-deco">
<sect1info>

<authorgroup>
<author>
<firstname>Rik</firstname>
<surname>Hemsley</surname>
</author>
<!-- TRANS:ROLES_OF_TRANSLATORS -->
</authorgroup>

<date>2001-07-22</date>
<releaseinfo>2.20.00</releaseinfo>

<keywordset>
<keyword>KDE</keyword>
<keyword>KControl</keyword>
<keyword>kwin</keyword>
<keyword>window</keyword>
<keyword>border</keyword>
<keyword>theme</keyword>
<keyword>style</keyword>
</keywordset>
</sect1info>

<title>Window Behavior</title>

<sect2>
<title>General</title>

<para>This module allows you to select a style for the borders around
windows.</para>

<para>Each style has a different look, but also a different
<quote>feel</quote>. Some have (sometimes invisible) 'resize' borders
all around the edge, which make resizing easier but moving more
difficult. Some have no borders on certain edges. One
(<quote>BII</quote>) even has a dynamically sized and positioned title
element.</para>

<para>You are encouraged to experiment with the different styles until you
find one which best suits your pattern of work.</para>

<para>Apart from choosing the window decoration itself, you can choose
here two further options: If there should be a tooltip, if you hover
your mouse over a window button, and if the window decoration should
attempt to use a custom set button order.</para>

<tip>
<para>The tooltips can be quite useful if you have set a custom button
order, and then changed to an unfamiliar window decoration.</para>
</tip>

</sect2>

<sect2>
<title>Buttons</title>

<para>This page has instructions directly on it - just drag around the
buttons until you have the order that makes you comfortable.</para>

<note>
<para>Not all the window decorations are able to comply with your custom
set button order.  The ones that cannot are being converted, but at the
time of this release they have not been all been changed.</para>
</note>

</sect2>

<sect2>
<title>Configure</title>

<para>If there are any configurable options for the theme you chose on
the first page, they will show up here.</para>

<para>In particular, if you chose to use the IceWM theme, you can choose
here which of the many IceWM themes to use.  The IceWM theme has
instructions on the page as to where you should copy the theme files,
and once this is done, you can simply select the theme you want to
use.</para>

</sect2>

<sect2 id="kwintheme-author">
<title>Section Author</title>

<para>This section written by Rik Hemsley <email>rik@kde.org</email>
</para>

<para>Updated by Lauri Watts <email>lauri@kde.org</email></para>

<!-- TRANS:CREDIT_FOR_TRANSLATORS -->

</sect2>
</sect1>

