<sect1 id="launch-feedback">
<sect1info>

<authorgroup>
<author>
<firstname>Lauri</firstname>
<surname>Watts</surname>
</author>

<!-- TRANS:ROLES_OF_TRANSLATORS -->
</authorgroup>

<date>2001-07-22</date>
<releaseinfo>2.20.00</releaseinfo>

<keywordset>
<keyword>KDE</keyword>
<keyword>KControl</keyword>
<keyword>launch feedback</keyword>
<keyword>cursor</keyword>
<keyword>busy</keyword>
</keywordset>

</sect1info>

<title>Launch Feedback</title>

<para>Sometimes it is reassuring to know that your computer didn't just
ignore your command, and something is happening behind the scenes.  In
this module you can configure visible feedback to help you know if you
really hit that icon or not.</para>

<para>The traditional way to indicate that your computer is busy is to
modify the cursor, and you can turn this on by checking the
<guilabel>Enable Busy Cursor</guilabel> checkbox.</para>

<para>With this option enabled, your cursor will have an icon attached
to it for a short time, when a new application is being launched.  You
can configure how long this icon displays by your cursor with the
<guilabel>Startup indication timeout (seconds):</guilabel> spinbox.  The
default is 15 seconds.</para>

<para>If the default cursor is not eye catching enough, or you just want
a more visible reminder, you can <guilabel>Enable blinking</guilabel>,
in which case the busy cursor icon will be animated.</para>

<para>Traditional &kde; launch notification has taken another form,
which you can also enable and disable here.  Normally when you start an
application, it gets an immediate entry in the taskbar, with the icon
replaced by a spinning &kde; gear to let you know something is
happening.  You can toggle this behaviour on and off with the
<guilabel>Enable Taskbar Notification</guilabel> checkbox, and when it's
enabled, you can set a time in the <guilabel>Startup indication timeout
(seconds):</guilabel> spinbox.</para>

<para>Not all applications that you start will eventually show a
window, or an entry in the taskbar.  Some of them for example, are
docked into the &kde; system tray,  or it might be that you sent it off
to a different virtual desktop, and you don't display all open tasks on
your current desktop taskbar.  Setting a timeout ensures that even in
these cases, you can still get launch feedback, but also that it will go
away when the job is done.</para>

<sect2>
<title>Section Author</title>

<para>This section written by: Lauri Watts
<email>lauri@kde.org</email></para>
</sect2>

</sect1>
