<sect1 id="mixer">
<sect1info>

<authorgroup>
<author>
<firstname>Mike</firstname>
<surname>McBride</surname>
</author>
<!-- TRANS:ROLES_OF_TRANSLATORS -->
</authorgroup>

<date>2001-07-22</date>
<releaseinfo>2.20.00</releaseinfo>

<keywordset>
<keyword>KDE</keyword>
<keyword>KControl</keyword>
<keyword>mixer</keyword>
</keywordset>
</sect1info>

<title>Mixer</title>

<para>This module can be used to configure some of the more basic
options of &kmix; (the &kde; Mixer).</para>

<para>The first section, relates to default volumes.  With this section,
you can save the current volume levels as the default.  You can also
load the default volume levels (thereby restoring them to the default
status).</para>

<para>By selecting the <guilabel>Load volumes on login</guilabel>, you
can instruct &kde; to automatically load the default volume levels
whenever &kde; is started.</para>

<para>The next section, lets you specify what hardware &kmix; should
look for.</para>

<para>The   slider   labeled    <guilabel>Maximum   number   of   probed
mixers</guilabel> determines  when &kmix; stops  looking for soundcards.
If you have one soundcard in  your computer, you should set this to one.
Using a higher number, means &kmix; will continue to search for a second
sound card, which will delay the startup of &kmix;.</para>

<para>The slider labeled <guilabel>Maximum number of probed devices per
soundcard</guilabel> determins how many devices &kmix; tries to detect
on each soundcard.  If there are more devices on your soundcard than
&kmix; shows on startup, you should increase this number.</para>

<sect2 id="mixer-author">
<title>Section Author</title>

<para>This section written by Mike McBride
<email>mpmcbride7@yahoo.com</email> </para>
<!-- TRANS:CREDIT_FOR_TRANSLATORS -->

</sect2>
</sect1>

