<sect1 id="mouse">
<sect1info>

<authorgroup>
<author>
<firstname>Mike</firstname>
<surname>McBride</surname>
</author>
<!-- TRANS:ROLES_OF_TRANSLATORS -->
</authorgroup>

<date>2001-07-24</date>
<releaseinfo>2.20.00</releaseinfo>

<keywordset>
<keyword>KDE</keyword>
<keyword>KControl</keyword>
<keyword>mouse</keyword>
</keywordset>
</sect1info>
<title>Mouse</title>

<para>This module allows you to configure your pointing device. Your
pointing device may be a mouse, a trackball, a touchpad, or another piece
of hardware that performs a similar function.</para>

<para>This module is divided into 2 tabs: <link
linkend="mouse-general">General</link> and <link
linkend="mouse-advanced">Advanced</link></para>

<sect2 id="mouse-general">
<title>General</title>

<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Button Mapping</guilabel></term>
<listitem><para>
If you are left-handed, you may
prefer to swap the functions of the <mousebutton>left</mousebutton> and
<mousebutton>right</mousebutton> buttons on your pointing device by choosing the
<quote>left-handed</quote> option. If your pointing device has more than two
buttons, only those that function as the <mousebutton>left</mousebutton> and
<mousebutton>right</mousebutton> buttons are affected. For example, if you have
a three-button mouse, the <mousebutton>middle</mousebutton> button is
unaffected.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Single-click to open files and folders</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>This is the default setting for &kde;. Clicking once on an icon
will open it.  To select you can drag around the icon(s) or <keycombo
action="simul">&Ctrl;<mousebutton>Right</mousebutton></keycombo> click,
or simply click and hold to drag it.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Change pointer shape over icons</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>When this option is checked, the shape of the mouse pointer
changes whenever it is over an icon.</para> 

<tip><para>This option should be checked in most situations. It gives
more visual feedback and says, in essence, if you click here, something
will happen.</para></tip>

</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Use double-click to activate or open</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para> If this option is not checked, icons/files will be opened with a
single click of the <mousebutton>left</mousebutton> mouse-button. This
default behavior is consistent with what you would expect when you click
links in most web browsers. If checked however, icons/files will be
opened with a double click, while a single click will only select the
icon or file. This is the behavior you may know from other desktops or
operating systems.</para> 
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Visual feedback on activation</guilabel></term> 
<listitem>
<para>When this option is
checked, &kde; gives you visual feedback whenever you click on something and activate it.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Large Cursor</guilabel></term> 
<listitem>
<para>This will give &kde; a larger mouse cursor.</para>

<note><para>The large cursor will not be seen until &kde; is
restarted.</para></note>

</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Automatically Select Icons</guilabel></term> 
<listitem>
<para>If you check this option, pausing the mouse pointer over an icon
on the screen will automatically select that icon.  This may be useful
when single clicks opens icons, and you only want to select the icon
without opening it.</para> 

<tip><para>You can still select an icon or file without opening it, even
when <guilabel>Single Click Opens</guilabel> is checked.  This is done
by either holding down the &Ctrl; key and then clicking, or by dragging
a box around the icon(s) or file(s) which you wish to select.
</para></tip>

<para> If you have activated this option, you can use the slider to
select how long the mouse pointer must rest on an icon before it becomes
selected.</para> 
</listitem> 
</varlistentry>

</variablelist>

</sect2>

<sect2 id="mouse-advanced">
<title>Advanced</title>

<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term id="peripherals-mouse-acceleration">
<guilabel>Pointer Acceleration</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>This option allows you to change the relationship
between the distance that the mouse pointer moves on the
screen and the relative movement of the physical device
itself (which may be a mouse, trackball, or some other
pointing device.)</para>

<para>A high value for the acceleration multiplier will lead to large
movements of the mouse pointer on the screen, even when
you only make a small movement with the physical device.</para>

<tip><para>A multiplier between <guilabel>1x</guilabel> and
<guilabel>3x</guilabel> will works well for many systems.  With a multiplier
over <guilabel>3x</guilabel> the mouse pointer may become difficult to
control.</para></tip>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Pointer Threshold</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>The threshold is the smallest distance that the mouse pointer must
move on the screen before acceleration has any effect. If the movement
is within the threshold, the mouse pointer moves as if the acceleration
were set to <guilabel>1x</guilabel>.</para>

<para>Thus, when you make small movements with the physical device (&eg;
mouse), you still have fine control of the mouse pointer on the screen,
whereas larger movements of the physical device will move the mouse
pointer rapidly to different areas on the screen.</para>
				
<para>You can set the threshold value by dragging the slider button or
by clicking the up/down arrows on the spin-button to the left of the
slider.</para>
				
<tip><para>In general, the higher you set the <guilabel>Pointer
Acceleration</guilabel> value, the higher you'll want to set the
<guilabel>Drag Threshold</guilabel> value.  For example, A
<guilabel>Drag Threshold</guilabel> of <guilabel>4pixels</guilabel> may
be appropriate for a <guilabel>Pointer Acceleration</guilabel> of
<guilabel>2x</guilabel>, but <guilabel>10pixels</guilabel> might be
better for <guilabel>3x</guilabel>.</para></tip>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Double Click Interval</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>This is the maximum amount of time between clicks for &kde; to
register a double click.  If you click twice, and the time between those
two clicks is less than this number, &kde; recognises that as a double
click.  If the time between these two clicks is greater than this
number, &kde; recognises those as two <emphasis>seperate</emphasis>
single clicks.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Drag Start Time</guilabel> and <guilabel>Drag Start
Distance</guilabel></term> 

<listitem>
<para>If you
<itemizedlist>
<listitem><para>Click with the mouse</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>drag within the time specified in <guilabel>Drag Start
Time</guilabel>, and </para></listitem>
<listitem><para>move a distance equal to or greater than the number (of
pixels) specified in <guilabel>Drag Start Distance</guilabel></para>
</listitem>
</itemizedlist>

&kde; will drag the selected item.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Mouse Wheel Scrolls By</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>If you have a wheel mouse, use the slider to determine how many
lines of text one <quote>step</quote> of the mouse wheel will
scroll.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

</variablelist>

</sect2>

<sect2 id="mouse-author">

<title>Section Author</title>

<para>Ellis Whitehead <email>kde@ellisw.net</email></para>
<para>Updated by: Mike McBride <email>mpmcbride7@yahoo.com</email></para>

<!-- TRANS:CREDIT_FOR_TRANSLATORS -->

</sect2>

</sect1>

