<sect1 id="nsplugins">
<sect1info>

<authorgroup>
<author>
<firstname>Jost</firstname>
<surname>Schenck</surname>
</author>
<!-- TRANS:ROLES_OF_TRANSLATORS -->
</authorgroup>

<date>2001-07-24</date>
<releaseinfo>2.2000</releaseinfo>

<keywordset>
<keyword>KDE</keyword>
<keyword>KControl</keyword>
<keyword>Netscape</keyword>
<keyword>plugins</keyword>
</keywordset>
</sect1info>
<title>&Netscape; Plugins</title>

<sect2 id="nsplugins-intro">
<title>Introduction</title>

<para>As &Netscape;'s <application>Navigator</application> has been a
web browsing standard for many years, so-called &Netscape; plugins have
appeared that allow rich web content.  Using those plugins, web sites
can contain <acronym>PDF</acronym> files, flash animations, video &etc;
With &konqueror;, you can still use these plugins to take advantage of
rich web content.</para>

<note><para>&Netscape; plugins should not be confused with &konqueror;
plugins. The latter ones specifically extend &konqueror;'s
functionality; they are normally not used to display rich web
content.</para></note>

</sect2>

<sect2 id="nsplugins-scan">
<title>Scan</title>

<para>&konqueror; has to know where your &Netscape; plugins are
installed.  This can be in several places, &ie; you might have
system-wide plugins in <filename
class="directory">/opt/netscape/plugins</filename> and your personal
plugins in <filename
class="directory">$<envar>HOME</envar>/.netscape/plugins</filename>.
However, &konqueror; will not automatically use the installed plugins:
it first has to scan a list of directories.  You can initiate the scan
by clicking <guibutton>Scan for new plugins</guibutton>.  Or you can
enable <guilabel>Scan for new plugins at KDE startup</guilabel> so
&konqueror; will on every &kde; startup scan the appropriate directories
to see whether new plugins have been installed.</para>

<note><para>Enabling <guilabel>Scan for new plugins at KDE
startup</guilabel> can considerably slow down the startup
procedure.</para></note>

<para>To find plugins, &konqueror; will look in the directories
specified in the <guilabel>Scan Directories</guilabel> frame.  When you
use this control module for the first time, this list will already be
filled with reasonable paths that should work on most operating systems.
If you need to provide a new path, click the <guibutton>New</guibutton>
button; then you can either enter the new path in the text edit box to
the left, or choose a directory using the file dialog by clicking the
<guibutton>...</guibutton> button.  As scanning the directories can take
a little time, you might want to remove directories from the list where
you know that no plugins are installed: do this by selecting a directory
and clicking <guibutton>Remove</guibutton>.  Using the
<guibutton>Up</guibutton> and <guibutton>Down</guibutton> buttons you
can change the order in which directories will be scanned by moving the
selected directory up or down.</para>

<para>As usual, click <guibutton>Apply</guibutton> to save your changes
permanently.</para>

</sect2>

<sect2 id="nsplugins-plugins">
<title>Plugins</title>

<para>In this tab, you can see a list of the &Netscape; plugins found by
&konqueror;, displayed as a tree.  Double click on a plugin to fold it
out and you'll see that the different mime types this plugin can handle
will be displayed as branches.  Fold out a mime type to see its
info.</para>

</sect2>

<sect2 id="nsplugins-author">
<title>Section Author</title>

<para>This section written by: Jost Schenck
<email>jost@schenck.de</email></para>

<!-- TRANS:CREDIT_FOR_TRANSLATORS -->

</sect2>

</sect1>

