<sect1 id="powerctrl">
<sect1info>

<authorgroup>
<author>
<firstname>Mike</firstname>
<surname>McBride</surname>
</author>
<!-- TRANS:ROLES_OF_TRANSLATORS -->
</authorgroup>

<date>2000-10-21</date>
<releaseinfo>1.00.00</releaseinfo>

<keywordset>
<keyword>KDE</keyword>
<keyword>KControl</keyword>
<keyword>Laptop</keyword>
<keyword>Power</keyword>
</keywordset>
</sect1info>
<title>Laptop Power Control</title>
<note><para>The laptop modules require the correct installation of the apm modules.  For more information see the section entitled <link linkend="laptop">Laptop Information</link>.</para></note>
<sect2 id="powerctrl-intro">
<title>Introduction</title>

<para>This tab provides a screensaver-style interface to the APM suspend/standby
modes.  It allows you to configure different wait times and/or actions depending
on whether or not your laptop's plugged into the wall. It's intended to be used
in addition to the existing KDE screensavers - you could for example disable
suspend/standby when plugged in to the wall, but enable suspend with a shorter
time than your normal screensaver kicks in while running on batteries.</para>

<warning><para>Standby mode seems to do different things on different laptops -
in particular on some it may not stay in standby mode and your laptop may be
continually waking/sleeping if you leave it in this mode.</para></warning>

</sect2>
<sect2 id="powerctrl-use">
<title>Use</title>

<para>This panel configures the power-down feature of your laptop.  It works as
a sort of extreme screen saver.</para>
<para>You can configure different timeouts and behaviors depending one whether
your computer is plugged in or running on battery power.</para>
<para>For both the "Powered" and "Not Powered", you should select one of the
following options:</para>
<itemizedlist>
<listitem><para>Standby - Puts your laptop into standby state</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>Suspend - Puts your laptop into suspend state</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>Off - Nothing happens at the specified time.</para></listitem>
</itemizedlist>

<para>Below that, is a text box labled "<guilabel>Wait for</guilabel>".  Enter
the time in minutes, that your computer should remain unused, before the laptop
is powered down.</para>

</sect2>
<sect2 id="powerctrl-author">
<title>Section Author</title>
<para>This section written by Paul Campbell <email>paul@taniwha.com</email></para>
<para>Converted to Docbook by Mike McBride <email>mpmcbride7@yahoo.com</email></para>
<!-- TRANS:CREDIT_FOR_TRANSLATORS -->
</sect2>
</sect1>

