<sect1 id="sys-notify">
<sect1info>

<authorgroup>
<author>
<firstname>Mike</firstname>
<surname>McBride</surname>
</author>
<!-- TRANS:ROLES_OF_TRANSLATORS -->
</authorgroup>

<date>2001-07-24</date>
<releaseinfo>2.20.00</releaseinfo>

<keywordset>
<keyword>KDE</keyword>
<keyword>KControl</keyword>
<keyword>system notification</keyword>
<keyword>notification</keyword>
</keywordset>
</sect1info>

<title>System Notification</title>

<para>&kde;, like all applications, needs to inform the user when a
problem occurs, a task is completed, or something has happened.  &kde;
uses a set of <quote>System Notifications</quote> to keep the user
informed on what is happening.</para>

<para>Using this module, you can determin what &kde; does to communicate
each event.</para>

<para>The panel consists of a large list of specific events which need
to be communicated to the user.  This list is organized into a tree, so
that you can rapidly find the notification you are looking for.</para>

<para>To configure a notification, simply click on a group, which will
open up a subgroup.  You can click on subgroups, which may lead to more
subgroups, or it may lead to a list of notifications.</para>

<para>Once you have found the notification you are looking for, double-click on
the notification.</para>

<para>You will be presented with 4 options:</para>

<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term>Log to file</term>
<listitem><para>This will tell &kde; to add the notification to the end of a file.
Once you place a mark in front of this option, you can enter a filename at the
bottom of the module.  If you click on the <guiicon>folder</guiicon> to the
right of the blank, you can browse through your filesystem and select the file
you want.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term>Play sound</term>
<listitem><para>When this notification is activated, &kde; will play a sound.
Once you place a mark in front ofthis option, you can enter a filename at the
bottom of the module.  </para>
<para>If you click on the <guiicon>folder</guiicon> to the right of the blank,
you can browse through your filesystem and select the file you want.</para>
<para>By clicking the arrow button to the right of the <guiicon>folder</guiicon>
button, you can hear the sound.</para>

<note><para>Currently, you can only play <literal
role="extension">.wav</literal> files.  This will likely change in future
releases.</para></note>

<para>Maybe you want to use a special media player to play sound files, &eg;
because you use sound files in a special format or you don't use the
<application>aRts</application> sound daemon. In that case, check the
<guilabel>Use external player</guilabel> option and enter the full path and name
of the program you want to use into the text field.</para></listitem>

</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term>Show message box</term>
<listitem><para>When this notification is activated, a message box appears in
the middle of the screen to inform the user of the message..</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term>Standard error output</term>
<listitem><para>When this notification is activated, the message is sent to the
standard output.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>
<tip><para>You are not limited to choosing one option, you can use any
combination of these four options for each notification.</para></tip>

<sect2>
<title>Section Author</title>

<para>This section written by Mike McBride <email>mpmcbride7@yahoo.com</email>
</para>
<!-- TRANS:CREDIT_FOR_TRANSLATORS -->

</sect2>
</sect1>

