<sect1 id="spell-checking">
<sect1info>

<authorgroup>
<author>
<firstname>Lauri</firstname>
<surname>Watts</surname>
</author>

<!-- TRANS:ROLES_OF_TRANSLATORS -->
</authorgroup>

<date>2001-07-24</date>
<releaseinfo>2.20.00</releaseinfo>

<keywordset>
<keyword>KDE</keyword>
<keyword>Spelling</keyword>
<keyword>dictionary</keyword>
</keywordset>

</sect1info>

<title>Spell Checking</title>

<para>The configuration options available here are used by all &kde;
applications that use &kspell;, which is a front end to
<command>ispell</command> or <command>aspell</command>.</para>

<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Create root/affix combinations not in
dictionary</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>  </para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Consider run-together words as spelling
errors</guilabel></term>
<listitem><para>If this is selected, than words that appear in the
dictionary separately, but have been run together, are considered to be
spelling errors.  For example, even though <quote>alarm</quote> and
<quote>clock</quote> might be in your dictionary, if
<quote>alarmclock</quote> is not, it will be flagged as a spelling
error.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Dictionary:</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>Choose from the available dictionaries, which one to use for
&kspell;</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Encoding:</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>You should select the one that matches the character set you are
using.  In some cases, dictionaries will support more than one encoding.
A dictionary might, for example, accept accented characters when
<emphasis>Latin1</emphasis> is selected, but accept email-style
character combinations (like <userinput>'a</userinput> for an accented
<emphasis>a</emphasis>) when <emphasis>7-Bit-ASCII</emphasis> is
selected.  Please see your dictionary's disctribution for more
information.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Client:</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>You can choose between the installed client applications on your
system, which one to use. <command>ispell</command> </para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>

<sect2>
<title>Section Author</title>
<para>This section was written by Lauri Watts
<email>lauri@kde.org</email>, based on the &kspell; manual by David
Sweet.</para>

<!-- TRANS:CREDIT_FOR_TRANSLATORS -->
</sect2>

</sect1>
