<sect1 id="screensaver">
<sect1info>

<authorgroup>
<author>
<firstname>Mike</firstname>
<surname>McBride</surname>
</author>
<!-- TRANS:ROLES_OF_TRANSLATORS -->
</authorgroup>

<date>2001-07-22</date>
<releaseinfo>2.20.00</releaseinfo>

<keywordset>
<keyword>KDE</keyword>
<keyword>KControl</keyword>
<keyword>screensaver</keyword>
<keyword>screen saver</keyword>
</keywordset>
</sect1info>
<title>Screensaver</title>

<para>Using this module, you can choose your screensaver, determine how quickly
the screen is saved, and add or remove password protection to your
screensaver.</para>

<sect2 id="ss-choose">
<title>Choosing the screensaver, and configuring its options</title>

<para>At the top left corner of the module, is a check-box labeled
<guilabel>Enable Screensaver</guilabel>.  This box must have a mark in it, or
&kde; will not launch any screensaver and it will not allow you to adjust the
settings of your screensaver.</para>

<para>Along the left side, is a list of all available screensavers.  You can
select a screensaver by simply clicking on the name of the screensaver.  Once
you have selected a screensaver, you will see a small preview on the preview
monitor on the right.  </para>

<note><para>The preview monitor will often show the screensaver larger than it
is when the screensaver is activated.  This is done on purpose, since many of
the details of the screensavers would be uninteligable if actually scaled down
to such a small size.</para></note>

<para>Each screensaver has a different set of setup options.  By
clicking on <guilabel>Setup</guilabel>, a dialog box will appear with
all available options.  As you adjust the options, the preview box in
the dialog box will show you what effect you will achieve with the
current settings.</para>

<para>When you are done setting up your screensaver, click
<guibutton>OK</guibutton>.</para> <para>Clicking <guibutton>Cancel</guibutton>,
will erase any changes you made in this dialog box, and return you to the
screensaver module.</para>

<para>Clicking <guibutton>About</guibutton>, will give you the Copyright and
Author information if you are interested.</para>

<para>When you think you have all the options set the way you want, simply click
on <guibutton>Test</guibutton>, to immediately start the screensaver
<emphasis>exactly</emphasis> as it will appear.</para>

</sect2>


<sect2 id="ss-options">
<title>Setting the time, priority and passwords for screensavers.</title>

<para>Below the Preview Monitor, is a spin box, which determines the period of
inactivity before the screensaver should be started.  You can enter any number
from 1-120 minutes in this box.</para>

<para>Below that, is a check-box, labeled <guilabel>Require Password</guilabel>.
If checked, when you click a key, or click a mouse button to end the
screensaver, and return to your work, you must enter a password.  The password
used is the same password you used to login to your machine.  If left blank, no
password is required.</para>

<!-- This option disappeared -->

<!-- <para>The next check-box down, is labeled "<guilabel>Show password
as stars</guilabel>".  If this box is not checked, there is no visual
indication of any letters you enter for your password.  This is the most
secure way to protect your password. If this check box is marked, then
each character you enter for your password will be represented by a
single asterisk (*). </para> -->

<para>At the bottom of the right side of the module, is a slider labeled
<guilabel>Priority</guilabel>.  If your screensaver appears jumpy, you
should increase the priority closer to the <guilabel>High</guilabel>
end.  This will tell your computer to devote more time to the
screensaver, and less time to other tasks.  </para>

</sect2>

<sect2 id="ss-other"><title>Using a non-&kde; screensaver</title> 

<para>&kde; does not prevent another screensaver from working.  To use a
different screensaver, such as <application>xscreensaver</application>, simply
disable the &kde; Screen Saver, and set up your other screen saver program
normally.  </para>

</sect2>

<sect2 id="screensaver-author">
<title>Section Author</title> 

<para>Mike McBride <email>mpmcbride7@yahoo.com</email></para>

<!-- TRANS:CREDIT_FOR_TRANSLATORS -->

</sect2>
</sect1>

