<sect1 id="style">
<sect1info>

<authorgroup>
<author>
<firstname>Mike</firstname>
<surname>McBride</surname>
</author>
<!-- TRANS:ROLES_OF_TRANSLATORS -->
</authorgroup>

<date>2001-07-22</date>
<releaseinfo>2.20.00</releaseinfo>

<keywordset>
<keyword>KDE</keyword>
<keyword>KControl</keyword>
<keyword>style</keyword>
</keywordset>
</sect1info>
<title>Style</title>

<sect2 id="style-intro">
<title>Introduction</title>

<para>This module is used to configure how the individual widgets are drawn by
&kde;.</para>

<note><para>A <emphasis>Widget</emphasis> is a commonly-used programmer's term
for referring to User Interface elements such as buttons, menus, and scroll
bars.  You can think of them as the fundamental pieces that are assembled to
make your application.</para></note>

<para>You can configure how the widgets are drawn with this module, but to
change the color of the widgets, you should refer to the section entitled <link
linkend="color">Colors</link>.</para>

<para>This panel is divided into three sections.</para>

<sect3 id="style-pre">
<title><guilabel>Widget styles and themes</guilabel></title>

<para>The top list box, contains a list of the pre-defined styles.  Each style
has a name, and a brief description.</para>

<para>To change styles, simply click on the style name, and press
<guibutton>Apply</guibutton> to see what the new widgets look like.</para>

<!-- Isn't any more <note><para>There is a style named
<guilabel>Testing</guilabel>.  This represents cutting edge development.
You might occasionaly notice problems with this style.</para></note> -->

</sect3>

<sect3 id="style-misc">
<title>Other settings for drawing</title>

<para>This small section has only two options.</para>

<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Menubar on the top of the screen in the style of
MacOS</guilabel></term>
<listitem><para>This will turn on a menubar at the top of the screen.  This
menubar will reflect the menu options of the active
application.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry> 
<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Apply fonts and colors to non-KDE apps</guilabel></term>
<listitem><para>If this option is enabled, &kde; will try to force all
applications to use the &kde; colors and fonts.  This usually works, but
certain applications may behave oddly. </para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>

</sect3>

<sect3 id="style-toolbars">
<title>Style options for toolbars</title>
<para>This section of the panel is used for toolbars in &kde;
applications.</para>

<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Style options for toolbars</guilabel></term>
<listitem><para>This option determines how toolbars will be displayed.  There
are 4 options: <guilabel>Icons only</guilabel>, <guilabel>Text only</guilabel>,
<guilabel>Text aside icons</guilabel>, and <guilabel>Text under
icons</guilabel>.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Highlight buttons under mouse</guilabel></term>
<listitem><para>When this option is enabled, any time you move the mouse
pointer over a button, the button will <quote>light up</quote>, to give
you feedback.  When disabled, the button does not change at
all.</para></listitem> 
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Toolbars are transparent when moving</guilabel></term>
<listitem><para>If this option is enabled, toolbars will appear as a rectangle
while they are being moved.  If this option is disabled, the toolbar will
contain all graphic elements when being moved.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>
</sect3>

<sect3 id="style-effects">
<title>Effect options</title>

<para>Here you can set up some visual effects for menus, combo boxes,
and tooltips.</para>

<para>These are very processor and memory intensive, so you may wish to
disable some of them.</para>

<para>For menus, you can choose to have <guilabel>No menu
effect</guilabel>, or you can <guilabel>Fade menus</guilabel>,
where you will have menus fade on to your screen, or <guilabel>Animate
menus</guilabel>, which will give you menus that appear to slide out as
you click on them.</para>

<para>You can likewise animate combo boxes, by checking the box labelled
<guilabel>Animate combo boxes</guilabel></para>

<para>Tooltips are the small phrases that appear if you hover your mouse
button over an icon.  You can disable them here, by checking the
<guilabel>Disable tool tips</guilabel> checkbox.</para>

<para>If you like the tooltips, you might like them even more with some
visual effects.  You can choose between <guilabel>Plain tool
tips</guilabel>, <guilabel>Fade tool tips</guilabel> which appear to
fade onto your screen, or <guilabel>Rollout tool tips</guilabel>, where
the tooltips seem to unroll from under your mouse cursor.</para>

</sect3>
</sect2>

<sect2 id="style-author">
<title>Section Author</title>

<para>This section written by Mike McBride
<email>mpmcbride7@yahoo.com</email>
</para>

<para>Updated for &kde; 2.2 by Lauri Watts
<email>lauri@kde.org</email></para>

<!-- TRANS:CREDIT_FOR_TRANSLATORS -->

</sect2>
</sect1>

