<sect1 id="taskbar">
<sect1info>

<authorgroup>
<author>
<firstname>Mike</firstname>
<surname>McBride</surname>
</author>
<!-- TRANS:ROLES_OF_TRANSLATORS -->
</authorgroup>

<date>2001-07-22</date>
<releaseinfo>2.20.00</releaseinfo>

<keywordset>
<keyword>KDE</keyword>
<keyword>KControl</keyword>
<keyword>taskbar</keyword>
<keyword>configure</keyword>
</keywordset>
</sect1info>

<title>Taskbar</title>

<para>The taskbar, is a quick way to switch between applications.  The taskbar
can be located in the panel (default), or outside the panel on the
desktop.</para>

<para>This module has options to control how the taskbar operates:</para>

<para>The top option, labeled <guilabel>Show all windows</guilabel>,
determines if all open windows are included in the taskbar or not.  By
default, the taskbar only shows the open windows <emphasis>on the
current desktop</emphasis>.  If this option is enabled, the taskbar will
show all open windows <emphasis>on all desktops</emphasis>.</para>

<para>Using the <guilabel>Show windows list button</guilabel> option,
you can enable a little button to be shown in the taskbar: this button
will open a popup menu offering access to applications on other desktops
as well as some useful actions, like <guilabel>Unclutter
Windows</guilabel>.</para>

<para>The next option, <guilabel>Group similar tasks</guilabel> allows
you to save some space on your taskbar, by only showing one icon for
each running application, no matter how many windows are shown.  You can
click on the icon to display a menu of all the windows that are
available.  This is most useful when you have enabled <guilabel>Show all
windows</guilabel>.</para>

<para><guilabel>Sort tasks by virtual desktop</guilabel> changes the
sorted order of the icons on the taskbar, so that windows on virtual
desktop 1 are shown first (to the left, or at the top) of the taskbar,
and next windows that are on virtual desktop 2, and so on.</para>

<para>Finally, you can disable the application icons, and show just the
text.  You might want to do this to save space on your taskbar, for
example.</para>

<!-- What option was this? <note><para>Currently the second option does
not have any affect. The next generation of the taskbar, will allow the user to
seperate the taskbar from the panel, and place it anywhere on the
desktop.</para></note> -->

<sect2 id="taskbar-author">
<title>Section Author</title>

<para>This section written by Mike McBride <email>mpmcbride7@yahoo.com</email>
</para>

<!-- TRANS:CREDIT_FOR_TRANSLATORS -->
</sect2>
</sect1>

