<sect1 id="user-agent">

<sect1info>

<authorgroup>
<author>
<firstname>Krishna</firstname>
<surname>Tateneni</surname>
<affiliation><address><email>
tateneni@pluto.njcc.com
</email></address></affiliation>
</author>
</authorgroup>

<date>2001-07-24</date>
<releaseinfo>2.20.00</releaseinfo>

<keywordset>
<keyword>KDE</keyword>
<keyword>KControl</keyword>
<keyword>user agent</keyword>
</keywordset>

</sect1info>

<title>User Agent</title>

<sect2 id="user-agent-intro">

<title>Introduction</title>

<para>When &konqueror; connects to a web site to retrieve information,
some basic identifying information is sent to the web site in the form
of a <quote>User Agent</quote> header.</para>

<para>Because of minor differences in the way that different web
browsers function, web sites that rely too much on a single browser may
sometimes not display as intended when viewed using another
browser. Some web sites are smart enough to examine the contents of the
user agent header and incorporate this information in the
<acronym>HTML</acronym> code so that the content is displayed correctly
regardless of the browser used.</para>

<para>However, you may find that some web sites refuse to function
correctly unless you are using a browser recognized as
<quote>proper</quote> by that site. In these cases, you may find it
necessary to fool the web site by having &konqueror; report itself to be
another browser by means of the user agent header.</para>

</sect2>

<sect2 id="user-agent-use">

<title>Use</title>

<para>In this module of the &kde; control center, you can configure the
type of browser that &konqueror; will report itself to be. You can
control this information by web site. Usually, the list box that is
labeled <guilabel>Configured useragent bindings:</guilabel> will be
empty, so that &konqueror; will always use its default useragent
string.</para>

<para>To configure a new agent binding, type the name of the server or a
domain in the text box at the top of the page, which is labeled
<guilabel>When connecting to:</guilabel>. Note that you can
<emphasis>not</emphasis> use the wildcard character <token>*</token> in
this text box. However, the string <userinput>kde.org</userinput> will
match all hosts in the domain <systemitem>kde.org</systemitem>.</para>

<para>After typing the name of the server, type in the identifying
string in the next combo box, which is labeled <guilabel>Send useragent
string:</guilabel> or choose a string from the list. If you don't choose
a string from the list, you will need to know what a valid string from
the browser looks like. For example, you could type
<userinput>Mozilla/4.0 (compatible; MSIE 4.0)</userinput>. </para>

<para>In the field labeled <guilabel>Alias for useragent
string</guilabel> you can enter a descriptive name for the configured
binding, &eg; <userinput>Netscape Navigator 4.75 on Linux</userinput>
for the useragent string <userinput>Mozilla/4.75 (X11; U; Linux 2.2.14
i686)</userinput>.</para>

<para>You can click on an existing entry in the <guilabel>Configured
agent bindings</guilabel> list, and then modify the contents of the text
boxes, followed by clicking <guibutton>Change</guibutton>.</para>

<para>Click the <guibutton>Add</guibutton> button to create a new user
agent binding. The <guibutton>Delete</guibutton> button can be used to
delete the selected entry in the list of configured agent bindings. The
<guibutton>Reset</guibutton> button will clear the upper text fields,
but won't touch the already configured bindings. Click
<guibutton>Apply</guibutton> to take your changes in effect.</para>

<para>You can use the checkboxes at the top of the screen to build a
user agent that is uniquely yours, by choosing your own combination of
operating system name and version, platform, processor type, and
language.</para>

<para>In all cases, the user agent that is being sent by default is
displayed in bold text at the top of the page.</para>

</sect2>

<sect2 id="user-agent-author">

<title>Section Author</title>

<para>This section written by: </para>
<para>Krishna Tateneni
<email>tateneni@pluto.njcc.com</email>.</para>
<para>Updated by Jost Schenck <email>jost@schenck.de</email>.</para>
<!-- TRANS:CREDIT_FOR_TRANSLATORS -->

</sect2>


</sect1>

