<?xml version="1.0" ?>
<!DOCTYPE book PUBLIC "-//KDE//DTD DocBook XML V4.1-Based Variant V1.0//EN" "dtd/kdex.dtd" [
  <!ENTITY kappname "&kde; User's Guide">
  <!ENTITY % addindex "IGNORE">
  <!ENTITY % English "INCLUDE" > <!-- change language only here -->
]>

<book lang="&language;">
<bookinfo>
<title>K Desktop Environment</title>
<authorgroup>
<author>
<surname>The KDE Team</surname>
</author>
<!-- TRANS:ROLES_OF_TRANSLATORS -->
</authorgroup>

<date>2000-11-06</date>
<releaseinfo>2.00.00</releaseinfo>

<copyright>
<year>2000</year>
<holder>The KDE Team</holder>
</copyright>

<legalnotice>&FDLNotice;</legalnotice>

<!-- Please note: This is NOT the final KDE Users Guide, which is not complete.
This is a quick rewrite of the KDE 1.1x user guide, because it was badly out of
date, and so that KDE wasn't released without a users guide entirely.  -->

<abstract><para>This is the KDE User's Guide, a complete documentation of the K
Desktop Environment from the user perspective. The K Desktop Environment is a
collection of tools that will make your UNIX life easier and more
enjoyable. </para></abstract>

<keywordset>
<keyword>KDE</keyword>
<keyword>user</keyword>
<keyword>guide</keyword>
</keywordset>
</bookinfo>

<chapter id="about-this-preview">
<title>About This Preview </title>

<para>Welcome to the KDE User Guide! Although this book is not yet complete 
and much of the information is still being rewritten, we hope this preview
version will be useful in answering some of the questions that a new KDE user
may have. </para>

<para>This book includes a complete introduction, a guide to KDE installation, a
description of the user interface, three practical examples on how to use KDE
for daily work, and a description on how to customize the KDE desktop. Also
included is a table of shortcuts and some tips &amp; tricks.</para>

</chapter>

<chapter id="introduction">
<title>Introduction </title>

<epigraph>
<attribution>The <abbrev>CEO</abbrev> of a big software company, at the
beginning of the 80s...</attribution>
<para>640kB ought to be enough for everyboy </para>
</epigraph>

<para>Since the beginning of UNIX development, there has been one great problem:
There were stable kernels, and good, powerful software.  Unfortunately, only a
few people could use UNIX, because it was written mainly for those students and
professionals who had studied the system for a long time.  For example, the
standard method for reading USENET news was </para>

<screen><userinput><command>find</command> <filename>/var/spool/news</filename> <parameter>-name '[0-9]*' -exec cat {} \;</parameter> | <command>more</command></userinput>
</screen>

<para>This problem has been solved.  Today, there are many good frontends
available, like <application>tin</application> and
<application>KNode</application>, which provide easy-to-use, intuitive graphical
user interfaces (<acronym>GUI</acronym>s).  Unfortunately, the
<acronym>GUI</acronym>s lack a common look-and-feel.  Commercial libraries for
programmers like <application>Motif</application> promised a solution to this,
but these libraries remain far too expensive and far too slow. </para>

<para>The configuration of programs is also often difficult. While compiling is
usually done with a commandline such as
<userinput><command>./configure</command> &amp;&amp; <command>make</command> &amp;&amp;
<command>make <option>install</option></command></userinput> only a very few
programs can be configured with menus or scripts. In most cases, you must edit
text configuration files yourself. It often happens that a misplaced period
ruins the whole file, forcing you to restart the configuration process. Whenever
you need to change your settings or reconfigure a program, the whole mess comes
up again. </para>

<para>All this contributes to the fact that Linux and other UNIX's fail to reach
a wider audience. At the same time, many people are not satisfied with their
current operating system, mainly because of the lack of stability and
performance found in those operating systems. Other people hate to buy a new
computer each time a new version of the program they cannot live without comes
out, because it needs more <acronym>RAM</acronym> and more disk space.  Often the
new version provides functions few people really need. </para>

<para> <emphasis>KDE is different.</emphasis> Although we do not try to replace
the standard UNIX shell, we are working on a tool that will make using UNIX
easier. We also want to attract more users to the UNIX environment.  Simple
things will be made easy and complex things will still be possible.  Also, a
single interface will be provided, instead of the dozens currently
required. </para>

<sect1 id="what-kde-can-do-for-you">
<title>What KDE Can Do For You </title>

<para>We designed KDE mainly for those new to UNIX, and others who wish to avoid
the complicated process of learning new technologies and commands not found in
their old operating systems.  We also provide, however, much of value to
experienced UNIX users. </para>

<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term>For those of you new to Unix:</term>
<listitem><para>Do not even try to use anything else, because you are exactly
the sort of person for whom we wrote this software. For you we provide:</para>

<itemizedlist>
<listitem><para>A good-looking, easy to use windowing environment
</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>A powerful, easy to use file manager </para></listitem>
<listitem><para>A simple, centralized configuration </para></listitem>
<listitem><para>An online help that will support you in every situation
</para></listitem>
</itemizedlist>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>For those with more UNIX experience</term>
<listitem><para>As an experienced UNIX user, you will welcome the new features
KDE has to  offer:</para>
 
<itemizedlist>
<listitem><para>A good, handy, and fast window manager </para></listitem>
<listitem><para>A consistent interface for your applications.  You will no
longer need to guess  if the <mousebutton>right</mousebutton> or the
<mousebutton>left</mousebutton> mouse button does what you
expect</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>A lean terminal emulator that does not fill up your memory when
multiple sessions are open simultaneously.</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>A stylish desktop that makes your friends jealous
</para></listitem>
</itemizedlist>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>

</sect1>

<sect1 id="background-of-kde">
<title>Background of KDE </title>

<para>In October 1996, German <application>LyX</application> developer Matthias
Ettrich initiated the development of KDE with a USENET posting. Soon after, a
couple of interested developers began planning and programming parts of the new
project. One year later, the window- and file-manager, the terminal emulator,
the help system and the display configuration tool were released for ALPHA and
Beta testing and proved to be relatively stable. </para>

<para>In July 1998, KDE 1.0 was released. It was the stable version for the next
six months, while developers continued work on improving KDE without stability
constraints.  In January 1999, their improvements were consolidated and
integrated to produce KDE 1.1, the new standard, stable version. </para>

<para>Developers and interested users communicate via several mailing lists as
described in the <link linkend="mailing-lists">Mailing lists</link>
section. If you would like to help, please do so! We are still looking for
helpers. </para>

</sect1>

<sect1 id="legal-status">
<title>Legal Notices</title>

<para>KDE is free software under the <link linkend="license">GNU
General Public License (GPL)</link>, which is included with every KDE
component. You can copy and distribute KDE and its components as you like, as
long as you always include the complete source code. See the <link
linkend="license">GNU General Public License (GPL)</link> section in
the Appendix for details. </para>

</sect1>

<sect1 id="getting-kde">
<title>How to Get New Components </title>

<para>The main site for KDE is <ulink
url="http://www.kde.org/">http://www.kde.org</ulink>. Here, you can find all
important information relating to KDE, including announcements, bugfixes,
developer info, style guides, a considerable amount documentation (including the
newest version of this book), and much more. For software upgrades, please visit
our ftp site, <ulink url="ftp://ftp.kde.org/">ftp://ftp.kde.org</ulink> or use
a mirror if one exists near you. </para>

<para>The directory <filename>unstable</filename> always contains brand new
software, but it often is untested and may not even compile. If you are looking
for more reliable components, please take a look in the
<filename>stable</filename> directory, where we put Beta and release
versions. </para>

<para>If you are interested in developing KDE applications on your own, you
should also visit Troll Tech's server (<ulink
url="http://www.troll.no/">http://www.troll.no</ulink>) which features a great
deal of information concerning the Qt library used by KDE.  For development
work, it is also advisable to join <link linkend="mailing-lists">the developer's
mailing list.</link></para>

</sect1>

</chapter>

<chapter id="installation">
<title>Installation </title>

<epigraph>
<attribution>Linus Torvalds, after finding one of his file systems smashed by a
new Beta kernel</attribution>
<para>Core dumping fsck's tend to make me nervous</para>
</epigraph>

<para>Don't worry!  Although the use of some Beta software can cause
considerable grief, it is unlikely that the installation of KDE will smash your
hard disk.  In fact, this chapter is designed to guide you through the
installation process so that you can take a look at your new desktop as quickly
(and with as little grief) as possible. As with all new Window Manager installs,
it is recommended that you back up all your X11-specific configuration files
before you begin the install. If you do not know the exact location of them, try
all the hidden (<filename>.*</filename>) files in your home directory and the directory
<filename>/usr/X11/lib/X11/xdm</filename>.  </para> 

<sect1 id="requirements">
<title>Requirements </title>

<para>Before installing KDE, ascertain that your system fulfills the following
requirements: </para>

<itemizedlist>

<listitem><para>A running POSIX compatible UNIX system. UNIX's that are known to
work with KDE include: Linux, FreeBSD, Solaris, HP-UX, and MkLinux. We are
working to make KDE available for more platforms soon. </para></listitem>

<listitem><para>Some free hard disk space on the partition where
<filename>/opt/kde</filename> will be created. We recommend that you reserve
about 50MB if your system supports shared libraries, and considerably more if it
does not.  If you need or want to build KDE from the source tree, please
remember to reserve about 100MB in <filename>/usr/src</filename>.</para></listitem>

<listitem><para>A running X11 system with or without
<application>xdm</application>. If you have not installed the X Window System
yet, first check your UNIX installation media for an installable version.  If
you cannot find any version working, visit <ulink
url="http://www.xfree86.org">the XFree86 web site</ulink> for more information
on how to get and install the X Window System, or contact your UNIX vendor
support. </para></listitem>

<listitem><para>The qt-libraries, version 2.2. You can get these at <ulink
url="ftp://ftp.troll.no/pub/qt">Troll Tech's FTP Server</ulink> in both rpm and
tgz format.  </para>
</listitem>
</itemizedlist>

<warning><para>A warning before you start: Before upgrading from a previous
version of KDE, we recommend that you do the following:</para>

<screen> 
<command>cd <filename>/opt/kde</filename></command> 
<command>tar <option>cfvz <replaceable>~/KDE-old-version-backup.tar.gz</replaceable> * </option></command>
</screen>
</warning>

</sect1>

<sect1 id="linux-installing-rpms">
<title>Linux: Installing RPMs for RedHat, Caldera and SuSE.</title>

<para>Using RPMs is the easiest method to get KDE up and running. Just visit
your favorite KDE mirror and visit the directory
<filename>/pub/kde/stable/distribution/rpm</filename>.  There, you can see
directories for different operating systems. Currently, the i386, alpha and
sparc architectures are supported. The rpm packages can also be found on the Red
Hat contrib sites like sunsite.unc.edu or ftp.redhat.com. </para>

<para>The basic system consists of the files
<filename>kde-<replaceable>component</replaceable>.<replaceable>architecture</replaceable>.rpm</filename>
You need at least kdesupport, kdelibs and kdebase. After getting the base
distribution, feel free to download any other rpms that you think may come in
handy.  </para>

<para>Next, start installing with the base package. If you are installing KDE
for the first time, use </para>

<screen> 
<userinput><command>rpm</command> <option>-i</option> <filename>kdesupport.arch.rpm</filename></userinput>
<userinput><command>rpm</command> <option>-i</option> <filename>kdelibs.arch.rpm</filename></userinput>
<userinput><command>rpm</command> <option>-i</option> <filename>kdebase.arch.rpm</filename></userinput>
</screen>
 
<important><para>It is important that these components are installed in the
order listed, and that they are installed before any other KDE
component.</para></important>

<para>If you are upgrading from a previous release, try
<screen> 
<userinput><command>rpm</command> <option>-Uvh</option> <filename>kde-<replaceable>component</replaceable>.<replaceable>arch</replaceable>.rpm</filename></userinput>
</screen>
</para>

<para>Once again, the order given above should be preserved, and the given
components should be installed before any other KDE components.</para>

<para>This will unpack the base distribution and install it by default in
<filename>/opt/kde</filename>.</para>

<para>If the installation of the base packages has been successful, you can
install the remaining packages (use <option>-Uvh</option> instead of
<option>-i</option> once again to update an existing version) the same
way. </para>

</sect1>

<sect1 id="installing-debian">
<title>Linux: Installing <acronym>DEB</acronym>s for debian</title>

<para>The installation for a Debian system is also rather straightforward.  You
will only find KDE 2.0 packages for Debian 2.2 (Potato) and 3.0 (Woody). We
describe here how to install packages for Debian 2.2, the stable version,
since Debian 3.0 is still in development. However, the installation for both
versions, is almost identical. The main difference is that KDE is oficially
included in Debian 3.0 and you do not need to specify any special location to
find the deb packages for KDE.</para>

<para>The first step is to tell your system where it can find the deb packages
for KDE.  A list of locations for the Debian packages is kept in your hard disk
in <filename>/etc/apt/sources.list</filename>. You should add to that file the
following line: <userinput>http://kde.tdyc.com/ stable kde2</userinput></para>

 
<para>Then you have to update your local package database so that your system
knows that there are new packages available. Type the following command:</para>

<screen>
<userinput><command>apt-get</command> <option>update</option></userinput>
</screen>
 
<para>Finally you should install the KDE base components. This is acomplished by
typing:</para>

<screen>
<userinput><command>apt-get</command> <option>install kdebase</option></userinput>
</screen>
 
<para>If you want to install other components you should try some, or all these
options:</para>

<screen>
<userinput><command>apt-get</command> <option>install task-kdenetwork</option></userinput>
<userinput><command>apt-get</command> <option>install task-kdeadmin</option></userinput>
<userinput><command>apt-get</command> <option>install task-kdetoys</option></userinput>
<userinput><command>apt-get</command> <option>install task-kdeutils</option></userinput>
<userinput><command>apt-get</command> <option>install task-kdemultimedia</option></userinput>
<userinput><command>apt-get</command> <option>install task-kdegraphics</option></userinput>
<userinput><command>apt-get</command> <option>install task-kdepim</option></userinput>
<userinput><command>apt-get</command> <option>install task-kdegames</option></userinput>
<userinput><command>apt-get</command> <option>install task-koffice</option></userinput>
<userinput><command>apt-get</command> <option>install kdebase-docs</option></userinput>
<userinput><command>apt-get</command> <option>install kdm</option></userinput>
</screen>

<para>You may also be interested in installing your language.</para>

<screen>
<userinput><command>apt-get</command> <option>install
kde-i18n-<replaceable>xx</replaceable></option></userinput>
 </screen>
<para>where <replaceable>xx</replaceable> has to be substitued with the country
code.</para>

<para>The control files for some KDE applications will be placed at <filename
class="directory">/etc/kde2</filename>, the executables will go in <filename
class="directory">/usr/bin</filename> and most of the auxiliary files in
<filename class="directory">/usr/share</filename> under  different
directories. </para>

<para>If you are upgrading from a previous version of KDE you should perform the
following steps. First, update file <filename>/etc/apt/sources.list</filename>
by changing the line with the location of KDE packages with line:
<userinput>http://kde.tdyc.com/ stable kde2</userinput>. Second update your
package database:</para>

<screen>
<userinput><command>apt-get</command> <option>update</option></userinput>
</screen>
 
<para>Finally install the kde base system:</para>

<screen>
<userinput><command>apt-get</command> <option>install kdebase</option></userinput>
<userinput><command>apt-get</command> <option>dist-upgrade</option></userinput>
</screen>
 
<para> If you want to install more KDE components try some, or all these
options.</para>

<screen>
<userinput><command>apt-get</command> <option>install task-kdenetwork</option></userinput>
<userinput><command>apt-get</command> <option>install task-kdeadmin</option></userinput>
<userinput><command>apt-get</command> <option>install task-kdetoys</option></userinput>
<userinput><command>apt-get</command> <option>install task-kdeutils</option></userinput>
<userinput><command>apt-get</command> <option>install task-kdemultimedia</option></userinput>
<userinput><command>apt-get</command> <option>install task-kdegraphics</option></userinput>
<userinput><command>apt-get</command> <option>install task-kdepim</option></userinput>
<userinput><command>apt-get</command> <option>install task-kdegames</option></userinput>
<userinput><command>apt-get</command> <option>install task-koffice</option></userinput>
<userinput><command>apt-get</command> <option>install kdebase-docs</option></userinput>
<userinput><command>apt-get</command> <option>install kdm</option></userinput>
</screen>

</sect1>

<sect1 id="source-distribution">
<title>Using TGZ to Install on Top of Other Systems </title>

<para>If your Linux distribution did not come with an RPM or DEB archive format,
or you are not using Linux at all, you must compile KDE on your own. In the
future, we are planning to provide a binary distribution which includes its own
installation program. </para>

<para>In order to compile and install KDE properly, you need to have the
following items installed on your hard disk: </para>

<itemizedlist>
<listitem><para>An ANSI-C compiler, <abbrev>e.g.</abbrev> the
<abbrev>GNU</abbrev> C compiler. </para></listitem>
<listitem><para>An ANSI-C++ compiler, <abbrev>e.g.</abbrev> <abbrev>GNU</abbrev>
C++. </para></listitem>
<listitem><para>The <application>make</application> utility. </para></listitem>
<listitem><para>Qt development version 2.2 or higher.</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>X11 development version (include files are often missing)
</para></listitem>
</itemizedlist>

<para>Once you have all the needed helper applications, go to your favorite  
KDE mirror and retrieve the following files from the directory 
<filename>/pub/kde/stable/<replaceable>newest
version</replaceable></filename>:</para>

<itemizedlist>
<listitem><para><filename>kdesupport-<replaceable>version</replaceable>.tar.gz</filename></para></listitem>
<listitem><para><filename>kdelibs-<replaceable>version</replaceable>.tar.gz</filename>
</para></listitem>
<listitem><para><filename>kdebase-<replaceable>version</replaceable>.tar.gz</filename></para></listitem>
<listitem><para>any other packages you wish to install. We advise you to get at
least kdeutils. </para></listitem>
</itemizedlist>

<para>In all cases above, <replaceable>version</replaceable> stands for the
current version number. Once you have downloaded all you need, extract these
files to <filename>/usr/src</filename>.  This process should yield the following
directory structure:</para>

<itemizedlist>
<listitem><para><filename>/usr/src/kdesupport</filename></para></listitem>
<listitem><para><filename>/usr/src/kdelibs</filename></para></listitem>
<listitem><para><filename>/usr/src/kdebase</filename></para></listitem>
<listitem><para><filename>/usr/src/...</filename> (any other
packages)</para></listitem>
</itemizedlist>

<para>Make sure you have write permissions to
<filename>/opt/kde</filename>.</para>

<para>Next you must compile and install the packages using the following:
</para>

<procedure>
<step><para><command>cd</command> into the directory of the package, you want to
install (see above)</para></step>
<step><para><command>./configure</command> (with the options you want to
apply)</para></step>
<step><para><command>make</command></para></step>
<step><para><command>make install</command></para></step>
</procedure>

<para>Apply the above steps to every package you want to install.</para>

<note><para>These instructions can be used for almost every source package
available, not just KDE packages. </para></note>

<para>Every configure script has several options available. Some are common
between the packages while others are specific to an individual package. The
following is the part of the result of <command>configure
<option>--help</option></command> in kdelibs:</para>

<screen>
<computeroutput>
  --disable-fast-perl     disable fast Makefile generation (needs perl)
  --enable-debug          creates debugging code [default=no]
  --enable-strict         compiles with strict compiler options (may not work!)
  --enable-profile        creates profiling infos [default=no]
  --enable-final          build size optimized apps (experimental - needs lots of memory)
  --disable-closure       don't delay template instantiation
  --enable-shared[=PKGS]  build shared libraries [default=yes]
  --enable-static[=PKGS]  build static libraries [default=no]
  --enable-fast-install[=PKGS]  optimize for fast installation [default=yes]
  --with-gnu-ld           assume the C compiler uses GNU ld [default=no]
  --disable-libtool-lock  avoid locking (might break parallel builds)
  --with-pic              try to use only PIC/non-PIC objects [default=use both]
  --with-extra-includes=DIR
                          adds non standard include paths
  --with-extra-libs=DIR   adds non standard library paths
  --with-qt-dir=DIR       where the root of Qt is installed
  --with-qt-includes=DIR  where the Qt includes are.
  --with-qt-libraries=DIR where the Qt library is installed.
  --disable-rpath         do not use the rpath feature of ld
  --disable-path-check    don't try to find out, where to install
  --with-xdmdir           If the xdm config dir can't be found automaticly
  --with-pam[=ARG]        enable support for PAM: ARG=[yes|no|service name]
  --with-shadow           If you want shadow password support
  --with-krb4[=PATH]      Compile in Kerberos v4 support.
  --with-afs              Compile in AFS support (requires KTH krb4).
  --with-ldap[=PATH]      Compile in LDAP support.
  --with-samba-libs=path  Use Samba-tng libs in 'path'                [search]
  --without-gl            disable 3D GL modes
  --without-xpm           disable color pixmap XPM tests
  --without-dpms          disable DPMS power saving
  --with-x                use the X Window System
  --with-motif-includes=DIR    Motif include files are in DIR
  --with-motif-libraries=DIR   Motif libraries are in DIR                           
</computeroutput>
</screen>

<para>Several options are not required and are only useful as work arounds
for known problems (<abbrev>e.g.</abbrev>
<option>--disable-FEATURE</option>). Since some are important options, for
instance <emphasis>--with-shadow</emphasis>, you should always check the
available options.</para>

<para>An important option is <option>--prefix</option>. This option specifies
the path where configure should install (for kdesupport and kdelibs) or where to
look for libraries (for the other packages). By default, configure will look in
<filename>/opt/kde</filename> . If you want to install KDE into
<filename>/usr/local/kde</filename>, you have to use <command>configure
<option>--prefix /usr/local/kde</option></command>.</para>

<para>If you have installed the Qt libraries in an uncommon place, for instance
in <filename>$HOME/src/qt</filename>, you must use <command>configure
<option>--with-qt-dir=$HOME/src/qt</option></command>. By default configure
looks in the most common places for QT before it gives up.</para>

<para>If you have problems that you are not able to solve, send
a copy of the file <filename>config.log</filename> to the address in the
<filename>README</filename> file in the offending package.</para>

<para>You must install KDE in the following order: kdesupport, kdelibs, then the
application packages (for example kdebase). All the application packages should
only depend on kdelibs, so you can compile them at the same time (if you have a
powerful machine).</para>

<para>If you want to take advantage of multiprocessor systems, try <command>make
<option> -j <replaceable>Number of processors</replaceable></option></command>
instead of <command>make</command>. </para>

<sect2>
<title>Platform Specific Building Notes </title>

<sect3>
<title>Linux </title>

<para>For Linux, most of the utilities needed to build KDE can be found either
at <ulink
url="ftp://sunsite.unc.edu/pub/Linux/GCC">ftp://sunsite.unc.edu/pub/Linux/GCC</ulink>
or <ulink
url="ftp://sunsite.unc.edu/pub/GNU">ftp://sunsite.unc.edu/pub/GNU</ulink>. The
Qt libraries can be found at <ulink
url="ftp://ftp.troll.no/pub/qt/linux">ftp://ftp.troll.no/pub/qt/linux</ulink>,
available in source or RPM format for Linux. Both contain detailed instruction
on how to install them. Include files for X11 programs should be available at
<ulink url="ftp://ftp.xfree86.org">ftp://ftp.xfree86.org</ulink> in the xdevel
section.  </para>

</sect3>
</sect2>
</sect1>

<sect1 id="suse-install">
<title>Required Changes To Your Configuration Files </title>
<para> 
After you have placed the KDE binaries into their destination directory,  
there are a few adjustments you must make to your startup scripts.  </para>
<para> 
The following procedure was tested on SuSE Linux 5.0, and should be compatible 
with the other popular UNIX's as well. <emphasis>Always make backups of  
configuration files before changing them!</emphasis> Add the following to  
the end of your /etc/profile: </para>
<para> 
<screen>export PATH=$PATH:/opt/kde/bin 
export KDEDIR=/opt/kde
</screen>
 </para>
<para>Next, edit the .xinitrc file in your home directory. Look for  
the line that calls your window manager and replace it with <literal>startkde</literal>.</para>
<para>Now that everything needed to run KDE has been installed, you can go on  
to chapter 4 where you will start KDE for the first time. If something goes  
wrong, you may need to compile KDE on your own. Read<emphasis>  
<link linkend="source-distribution">Using TGZ to install on top of other systems</link> </emphasis>for more information.  </para>
<para>We have made the installation as bulletproof as possible, so you
should not encounter any serious problems unless your configuration is
exotic. If you do experience difficulties feel free to use
<link linkend="mailing-lists">the KDE mailing lists</link>    </para>
</sect1>
</chapter>

<chapter id="first-impressions">
<title>First Impressions </title>

<epigraph>
<attribution>Origin unknown</attribution>
<para>You see to sea to see all that you can see is sea</para>
</epigraph>

<para>First impressions are so important -- this is not only true for Agatha
Christie's famous thriller "The Mousetrap" -- but also for KDE. As we mentioned
before, KDE is supposed to be the most intuitive, easy to learn user interface
available. In fact, we will have reached our goal when users no longer need this
book in order to work with KDE, causing the authors to lose their (unpaid and
voluntary) jobs as documentors. </para>

<sect1 id="starting-kde">
<title>Starting KDE </title>

<para>When you boot a UNIX system, one of two things should happen (that is, if the 
system works correctly; everything else is an undocumented third case).  Either 
you stay in text mode and get a login prompt or you are presented with a
graphical login  window.  In the former case, you must log into your system and
type: </para>

<screen>  
<command>startx</command>  
</screen>

<para>If the installation was successful, the KDE desktop should appear after a
few seconds of initialization. </para>

<para>If a graphical login window is presented, then all that should be required
is your login name and password.  Assuming the KDE installation was successful,
KDE should start without further intervention. </para>

<para>If you have not done so already, we recommend changing your X display manager 
from <application>xdm</application> to <application>kdm</application>,  which
includes the same functionality, but with the advanced features of the K Desktop
Environment. </para>

</sect1>

<sect1 id="desktop-components">
<title>Desktop Components </title>

<para>After everything has come up, take some time to explore the new
environment. If you have already worked with <emphasis>Windows 95</emphasis> or
<emphasis>OS/2 Warp 4</emphasis>, many things should look familiar to you. The
three main parts of a KDE desktop are the desktop itself, the panel, and the
task list. </para>

<sect2 id="kde-logout">
<title>Panel </title>

<para>When you start KDE for the first time, the panel is situated at the bottom
of the screen. From here, you will start your programs and switch between the
virtual screens. </para>

<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term><guiicon>K</guiicon> button</term>
<listitem><para>The "<guiicon>K</guiicon>" button is one of the most important
places on your KDE desktop. From here, you can start all KDE applications
installed. Later, when you learn how to use <link linkend="adding-programs">the
K Menu Editor</link>, you can also add other programs here as well. To start a
program, just click on the button. You will see a list of different categories,
plus some special entries. Whenever you move your mouse over an entry that has
an arrow to the right, a new menu will appear. When you find the program you
want to start, just click on it with the <mousebutton>left</mousebutton> mouse
button.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>Virtual Desktop buttons</term>

<listitem><para>When you start KDE for the first time, note the four buttons
labeled, appropriately enough, "One", "Two", "Three" and "Four".  These
represent your four <emphasis>desktops</emphasis>.  Just click one of them.
Don't worry; though they have "disappeared", any open windows are still active
(just take a look at the task list!).  Using multiple desktops is one of the
most powerful features of KDE and the X Window System. Instead of placing one
window over another, as you would when using Windows or OS/2, you can say "Well,
on the first desktop, I will write the KDE User Guide.  On the second desktop
I'll run the <abbrev>sgml2latex</abbrev> compiler and see my results while
compiling my linux kernel on the third desktop, and reading my e-mail on the
fourth." </para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term>Icon bar</term>
<listitem>
<para>Some people are so lazy that they consider even the two or three  
motions through the applications menu to be too much (me included).  For them,
additional buttons can be placed next to the desktop buttons; for example, 
shortcuts to your home directory, to your trashcan, to the kvt terminal  
emulator and to the documents you use often. For information on how to add  
icons to the taskbar, read <link linkend="icons-add">Adding icons to your
taskbar</link>. </para>
<para>KDE by default installs several commonly used buttons, including links to
<application>KHelpCenter</application>, <application>KWrite</application> and
the <application>KDE Control Panel</application>.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term>Time and date</term>
<listitem><para>At the far right end of the KDE panel, you can always see  
the time and date.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term>The task list</term>
<listitem>
<para>In another section of the panel, find a button for each open window. Just
click on the button corresponding to the windows you want to open.  Another
click will minimize the window.  A <mousebutton>right</mousebutton> mouse button
click will give you a menu allowing you to move the window to another desktop,
manipulate it's size, or close the application.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>

</sect2>
<sect2>
<title>Using Windows </title>

<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term>Window menu</term>
<listitem>
<para><mousebutton>Right</mousebutton> mouse button clicking in the title bar of
the window (where you see the applications name), you can see a window manipulation 
icon. This is the same menu you see if you <mousebutton>right</mousebutton>
click on an applications icon in the panel taskbar.  When you click on it, a
context menu containing commands to manipulate the window is
presented. The available commands are as follows:</para>

<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term><guimenuitem>Move</guimenuitem></term>
<listitem><para>Lets you move the window with your mouse. Click on the
<mousebutton>left</mousebutton> mouse button when you have the window where you
want it to be.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term><guimenuitem>Size</guimenuitem></term>
<listitem><para>Enables you to make the window smaller or larger. Move your
mouse around and click when you are satisfied with the new
size.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term><guimenuitem>Minimize</guimenuitem></term>
<listitem><para>Hides the window, leaving only an icon in the
taskbar.  Notice that the window title in this icon is now shown in
(parentheses).  To bring the window to the desktop again, click the
icon.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term><guimenuitem>Maximize</guimenuitem></term>
<listitem><para>This will expand the window to the largest size possible. Note
that KDE will take the size of your <emphasis>virtual desktop</emphasis>, which
means that the window could be bigger than your screen. </para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term><guimenuitem>Shade</guimenuitem></term>
<listitem><para>"Roll" up the window, leaving only the titlebar visible. You can
achieve the same effect by double clicking in the titlebar.  To display the
entire window again, select <guimenuitem>Shade</guimenuitem> again, or double
click in the titlebar.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term><guimenuitem>Always on Top</guimenuitem></term>
<listitem><para>Selecting this will keep this window on top of all other
applications, even when it does not have the focus.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term><guimenuitem>Decoration</guimenuitem></term>
<listitem><para>Allows you to change the look, and in some cases the position,
of all the windows in KDE. This changes the window decoration widgets, including
the titlebar buttons, but also including things such as checkboxes and buttons
within dialogs, scrollbars, and the titlebar itself. The default is
KDE2.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term><guimenuitem>To Desktop</guimenuitem></term>
<listitem><para>Enables you to send a window to another desktop. Choose the
desktop where you want the window to be. The window will disappear at once. To
see your window again, select the appropriate <guiicon>Desktop Button</guiicon>
on the KDE <application>Panel</application>.  Selecting <guimenuitem>All
Desktops</guimenuitem> will make the window "sticky" - it will display on all
desktops at once, so you can alway see this window.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term><guimenuitem>Close</guimenuitem></term>
<listitem><para>This will close the window. Sometimes the application will allow
you to save your work, but it some cases (<abbrev>e.g.</abbrev>, old X11
applications) this does not work. It is best to close an application with its
own commands, using this menu item only as a last
resort.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term>Sticky button</term>
<listitem><para>This button looks like a thumb tack.  It performs the same 
operation as selecting <guimenuitem>All Desktops</guimenuitem> in the
<guimenu>Window  Menu</guimenu>, but requires fewer steps to
invoke.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term>Title bar</term>
<listitem><para>The title bar containing the name of the window can be
double-clicked in order to shade it. Use the <mousebutton>right</mousebutton>
mouse button: The <guimenu>Window menu</guimenu> will reappear, allowing you to
(un)maximize, iconify, move, resize, (un)sticky the window, to move it to
another desktop (this works faster than the method with the sticky button).
When a program does not react anymore, you can close (which will sometimes give
you the opportunity to save your work) it. </para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term><guibutton>Iconify</guibutton>, <guibutton>maximize</guibutton> and
<guibutton>close Buttons</guibutton></term>
<listitem><para>To the right of the title bar, there are two buttons that can
also be used to iconify or maximize the window (this is faster than using the  
window manipulation menu). Iconified windows can be brought back with a click on
the taskbar. </para>
<para>At the far left of the titlebar (with the default window decoration) is a
button to close the window.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>

<para>To move a window, place the cursor on the title bar and hold down the
<mousebutton>left</mousebutton> mouse button.  Without releasing the mouse
button, move the window to the location of your choice, then release the mouse
button. If you want to resize a window, move the mouse cursor to the window
border you wish to change.  Once you have reached the correct spot, the cursor
will change from an arrow to a bracket and an arrow.  Hold down the
<mousebutton>left</mousebutton> mouse button and drag the side in question to
the location you wish, then release the button.  Note that you may drag sides or
corners (which will adjust the size in two dimensions at once.)</para>

<para>Using the menu bar of each KDE window is easy. Just click on what
 you want to do, and it will be done.</para>

<para>Below the menu bar, there is a set of tool symbols you can use to
execute commands. Whenever you move over them, an active picture will be
marked.  But the menu bar can do even more for you. Notice the textured
stripe on the left of the menu and icon bars? Depress your
<mousebutton>right</mousebutton> mouse button and a context menu will
appear, allowing you to put the menu bar on the
<guimenuitem>top</guimenuitem>, <guimenuitem>left</guimenuitem>,
<guimenuitem>right</guimenuitem>, or <guimenuitem>bottom</guimenuitem>
of the window. You can also hide the menubar by selecting
<guimenuitem>Flat</guimenuitem></para>

</sect2>

<sect2>
<title>Getting Help </title>

<para>Help is available basically everywhere: On the desktop, just use the
<mousebutton>right</mousebutton> mouse button and choose <guimenuitem>Help On
Desktop</guimenuitem>. On the KDE panel, open the application menu and choose
<guimenu>Help</guimenu>. Every KDE program has a help menu. All help is
HTML-based, so using the help system is as easy as using your favorite web
browser! </para>

</sect2>
</sect1>
</chapter>

<chapter id="getting-started">
<title>Getting Started </title>

<epigraph>
<attribution>Help for one of the toughest riddles in <quote>The 7th
Guest</quote></attribution>
<para>Using only what you see, can you get from A to B?</para>
</epigraph>

<para>Thus far, KDE may appear to be little more than another window manager
with some handy desktop features.  But hold onto your seat; in the next few
sections, we'll introduce you to features that'll assure you will never again
try to operate your system Unix without KDE!</para>

<sect1 id="editing-files">
<title>Editing Files </title>

<para>Since you do not only have KDE applications installed on your system, you
probably know the mess of editing <abbrev>ASCII</abbrev> style configuration
files. But in fact, there are a lot of other file types that need to be edited
this way.  For example, the raw <abbrev>SGML</abbrev> source for this guide was
written <abbrev>ASCII</abbrev> style, as was the source code for the KDE
programs themselves. We will now show you how you can use the
<application>KEdit</application> facility in KDE to edit <abbrev>ASCII</abbrev>
files of your own. </para>

<sect2 id="the-filemanager-screen">
<title>Opening a Window Containing Your Home Directory </title>

<para>Click on the <guibutton>application starter</guibutton> and choose
<guimenuitem>Home directory</guimenuitem>.  A window showing the contents of
your home directory will pop up. To see a more detailed  listing of files in
your home directory, do the following: </para>

<procedure>
<step><para>Select <guimenuitem>Show Hidden Files</guimenuitem> from the
<guimenu>View</guimenu> menu.</para></step>
<step><para>Select <guimenuitem>Show Directory Tree</guimenuitem> from the
<guimenu>Settings</guimenu> menu.</para></step>
</procedure>

<para>On the left hand of the window, a tree view of your file system
structure should appear, including any "hidden files" -- files or
directories beginning with a period. </para>

</sect2>

<sect2>
<title>The File Manager Screen </title>

<para>We tried to make the File Manager as easy as possible to use, and if you
know other window managers (including those built into other Operating Systems)
with integrated file management, many of the following concepts should be
familiar to you. </para>

<para>On the top, there is a <guimenu>Location</guimenu> menu which
contains functions to open and close file manager windows. You can also
print the current contents. </para>

<note><para>Want to visit the Internet? Just choose
<menuchoice><guimenu>Location</guimenu><guimenuitem>Open
Location</guimenuitem></menuchoice> (or press
<keycombo><keycap>Ctrl</keycap><keycap>O</keycap></keycombo>) and enter
a <abbrev>URL</abbrev>. </para>

<para>For example, if you want to visit the KDE homepage, enter
<userinput>http://www.kde.org</userinput>. You can also quickly
<abbrev>FTP</abbrev> files using this method.  KDE is "Internet ready",
which means that you can load and save files not only on your local hard
disk, but also on remote <abbrev>FTP</abbrev> and <abbrev>HTTP</abbrev>
servers. While other operating systems and desktops make a distinction
between local and remote file systems, KDE does not. </para></note>

<para>The <guimenu>Edit</guimenu> menu offers functions to select, copy and move
files. We will use them later. Already having used the <guimenu>View</guimenu>
menu, you have probably seen that you can view the content in many different
ways. Just play around a bit and see what happens.  </para>

<para>You will undoubtedly find the <guimenu>Bookmarks</guimenu> to be extremely
useful: Now you can remember virtually any link, be it on the local machine or
somewhere on the Internet. </para>

<para>The <guimenu>Tools</guimenu> menu helps you find the
notorious files-that-I-put-somewhere-I-do-not-remember-anymore. </para>

</sect2>

<sect2>
<title>Navigating Through Directories </title>

<para>We will now pick one of your configuration files and edit it. First, we
must change the directory in the File Manager. Scroll down the tree view on the
left side of the window until you find the directory
<filename>/etc</filename>. Double-click on <filename>etc</filename>.  You will
see a list of files in the right window. </para>

</sect2>

<sect2>
<title>Editing a File </title>

<para>Scroll down until you find the file <filename>motd</filename> and click on
it with the <mousebutton>right</mousebutton> mouse button. In the
<guimenu>context menu</guimenu>, select <guimenuitem>Open With</guimenuitem>. A
new window will pop up. Enter <userinput>kedit</userinput> and click on
<guibutton>Ok</guibutton> or press <keycap>Enter</keycap>. Voila! </para>

</sect2>

<sect2>
<title>The Editor Screen </title>

<para>The more you work with KDE, the more you will notice that most screens and
applications look and feel the same. The <application>KEdit</application>
<guimenu>File</guimenu> menu is a great example of this. Almost every other KDE
program has the same menu, allowing you to create new files, open existing files
from your local file system or (coming soon) even the web, save them (soon even
on the web, too!), print it or mail it to somebody else.</para>

<para>The <guimenu>Edit</guimenu> menu can also be found in most KDE
applications, allowing you to cut and paste information between
programs. You can also search and replace text. Using the
<guimenu>Settings</guimenu> Menu, you can customize the editor in many
different ways. For example, you can increase the font size to suit your
monitor resolution -- and your eyes. Of course, as in any other KDE
application, you find a <guimenu>Help</guimenu> Menu, offering you
on-line help whenever you need it. </para>

</sect2>

<sect2>
<title>Using the Editor </title>

<para>Most <filename>motd</filename> files contain useless stuff like
"Do not forget to back up your data" or "Do not annoy the system
manager". Boring. Let's change the text so that users logging in get the
really important information. You can navigate through the text using
the arrow keys, and mark sections of text with
<keycombo><keycap>Shift</keycap> <keycap>Arrows</keycap> </keycombo>or
by using the mouse with the <mousebutton>left</mousebutton> button
pressed. Use the <guimenu>Edit</guimenu> Menu to cut and paste
text. Enter whatever you want, or use the following (great) example:
</para>

<screen><userinput>Welcome!
 
This machine now has KDE installed, providing you with a great, 
easy-to-use interface and a consistent Look-and-Feel for all your 
applications. For more information on how to get KDE running on your 
account, please e-mail the administrator. </userinput></screen>

</sect2>

<sect2 id="drag-and-drop">
<title>Saving Your Work </title>

<para>Now that you have changed the <filename>motd</filename> file, it
is time to save the file, putting the changes into effect. To do this,
you can use either the <guimenu>File</guimenu> Menu, or you can use the
<guiicon>Save</guiicon> Icon on the toolbar. Finally, finish your work
by closing the editor and file manager window. You can do this by
clicking the <guibutton>X</guibutton> button on the top left of the
window, by using the window menu of the title bar, or by choosing
<menuchoice><guimenu>File</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Quit</guimenuitem></menuchoice>. Simple and elegant, isn't
it?
</para>

</sect2>
</sect1>

<sect1 id="moving-files-with-drag-and-drop">
<title>Moving Files With Drag and Drop </title>

<para>As you have seen in the previous section, working with files is as
easy as 1-2-3. However, when you want to copy and move files, the whole
copy-and-paste business can get annoying. Don't worry -- a procedure
called "drag and drop" allows you to copy and move files more quickly
and easily. </para>

<sect2>
<title>Opening Two File Manager Windows </title>

<para>Before you can start, you will need open two file manager
windows. The simplest way to open a new window is to press the gear
wheel button on the right of the icon bar. If you do not see the tree
view in the new window, activate it
(<menuchoice><guimenu>Window</guimenu><guimenuitem>Tree
View</guimenuitem> </menuchoice>). </para>

</sect2>

<sect2>
<title>Dragging a File From One Window To Another </title>

<para>In the first window, open the <filename>/etc</filename> folder and scroll
until you see the <filename>motd</filename> file we modified in the previous
section.</para>

<para>In the second window, open your home directory.</para>

<para>Click on the <filename>motd</filename> file. Hold your
<mousebutton>left</mousebutton> mouse button and drag your file into your home
directory. Release the <mousebutton>left</mousebutton> mouse button (this is
called <emphasis>dropping</emphasis> the file). You will be presented three
options: <guimenuitem>copy</guimenuitem>, <guimenuitem>move</guimenuitem> and
<guimenuitem>link</guimenuitem>. <guimenuitem>Link</guimenuitem> will create a
symbolic link to the file, while <guimenuitem>copy</guimenuitem> and
<guimenuitem>move</guimenuitem> do exactly what they say. Select
<guimenuitem>copy</guimenuitem>. You should now have a copy of the
<filename>motd</filename> file in your home directory. </para>

</sect2>
</sect1>

<sect1 id="using-command-line-and-terminals">
<title>Using Command Line And Terminals </title>

<para>So far, you have only worked with the tools and programs KDE
provides. Undoubtedly, you will want to use other UNIX programs as well. There
are two ways of running them: The quick command line and the terminal. </para>

<sect2>
<title>Quick Command Line </title>

<para>Pressing <keycombo><keycap>Alt</keycap> <keycap>F2</keycap></keycombo>
pops up a small window where you can enter a command to run. Please note that
you will not see any text output generated from a program started in this
manner! This method is only recommended for starting X Window System programs or
for running tools where you do not need to see or type anything. For other
programs, you will still need to use the terminal. </para>

</sect2>

<sect2>
<title>The UNIX Terminal Emulator </title>

<para>From the application menu, choose
<menuchoice><guisubmenu>System</guisubmenu><guimenuitem>Terminal</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>. A terminal window will open.  Here you can use regular UNIX shell
commands: <command>ls</command>, <command>cat</command>,
<command>less</command>, and so forth.  Using the options menu, you can
customize the terminal emulator to suit your needs. </para>

</sect2>
</sect1>

<sect1 id="finding-your-lost-files">
<title>Finding Your Lost Files </title>

<para>Everyone has undoubtedly encountered the following problem: You
start ftp, log into a great site like ftp.kde.org and start downloading
files. It is late in the evening and you shut down your machine after
completing the transfer. The next morning, you are at the keyboard
again, and you start wondering into which directory you placed the
recently transferred files. Using KDE's <application>KFind</application>
utility makes finding those lost files a snap. </para>

<sect2>
<title>Starting <application>KFind</application> </title>

<para>Starting <application>KFind</application> is simple: Choose
<guimenuitem>Find Files</guimenuitem> in the <guimenu>Application
Starter</guimenu>.  <application>KFind</application> uses an interface
part you probably do not know yet: register tabs. When
<application>KFind</application> starts, you see that <guilabel>Name
&amp; Location</guilabel> is selected. When you click on <guilabel>Date
Modified</guilabel>, the register content changes. Since you have never
run a search before, most of the icons on the toolbar and most of the
menu entries are disabled. We will change this now. </para>

</sect2>

<sect2>
<title>Finding a File by Knowing Parts of Its Name </title>

<para>As long as you know a bit of the file name, searching is
easy. Select the <guilabel>Name &amp; Location</guilabel> tab, and enter
the file name. Wildcards may be used as needed.  As a test, type
<userinput>*.tar.gz</userinput>. By default, the search begins in your
home directory, but you can select any starting directory you wish by
clicking on the <guilabel>Look in</guilabel> or
<guibutton>Browse...</guibutton>. To start searching, click the icon
(which looks like a magnifying glass over a sheet of paper) on the left
of the toolbar. After a moment, a list of files will appear in the
search results window. If they do not appear, you started the search in
the wrong directory, made a spelling mistake in the name field, or no
files ending with a <filename>.tar.gz</filename> extension are located
on your machine. </para>

</sect2>

<sect2 id="finding-with-complex-criteria">
<title>Finding a File by More Complex Criteria </title>

<para>There are many categories you can use to make your search more
precise.  <emphasis>The more you know about the file, the better are
your chances of finding it</emphasis>.</para>

<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Date Range</guilabel></term>
<listitem><para>Here, you can specify that you only want to see files
which were 
last touched in a given period of time. You can also specify that you only want
to see files that were touched since a specified number of months or days
ago.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Of type</guilabel> in the
<guilabel>Advanced</guilabel> tab.</term>
<listitem><para>If you know that the file was of a special type
(<abbrev>e.g.</abbrev>, a tar/gzip archive or a jpeg picture), you can tell
<application>KFind</application> to find only this type of
file. </para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Containing text</guilabel> in the
<guilabel>Advanced</guilabel> tab</term>
<listitem>
<para>You can specify text that the file must contain. </para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Size is</guilabel>, also in the
<guilabel>Advanced</guilabel> tab</term>
<listitem><para>If you know the file size, you can limit your search in this
regard, as well. </para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>

<para>&kfind; has many more options to refine searches, explore them
all!</para>

</sect2>
</sect1>

<sect1 id="using-multiple-desktops">
<title>Using Multiple Desktops </title>

<para>Using multiple desktops helps you organize your work. You can place your
programs on different desktops, and name the desktops so you know what you do
there. This increases and optimizes your workspace. It also helps you when you
are surfing the net instead of doing your work and your boss comes in. But, of
course, this is rare -- at least in the office where I work ;). </para>

<para>You can switch between desktops by clicking the desktop buttons on the KDE
panel. If you want to rename them, you can do so by double-clicking on
them. </para>

<para>You can use windows on multiple desktops. If you want to have a window
present everywhere, just click the sticky button on the top-left of the
window. To send a window to another desktop, click on the title bar with the
right mouse button, choose <guimenuitem>To Desktop</guimenuitem>, and select the
desktop where you would like the window moved. </para>

</sect1>

<sect1 id="quitting-kde">
<title>Quitting KDE </title>

<para>To quit working with KDE, you can use the
<guimenuitem>Logout</guimenuitem> entry in the <guimenu>application
starter</guimenu> menu. You will be asked if you really want to quit
KDE. Quitting will close all windows and return you to your console or display
manager. For information on how programs can save your work during logout,
please read <link linkend="kde-logout">the notes for logging out.</link> </para>

</sect1>
</chapter>

<chapter id="all-about-your-desktop">
<title>All About Your Desktop</title>

<epigraph>
<attribution>Little Red Riding Hood</attribution>
<para>Grandma, what big eyes you have!</para>
</epigraph>

<epigraph>
<attribution>The Wolf</attribution>
<para>The better to see you!</para>
</epigraph>

<para>The more you see, the more efficiently you can use your desktop. KDE gives
you the opportunity to make the desktop look and work the you way prefer,
enabling you to work faster and more productively. It even gives you the
opportunity to be warned if a wolf is trying to eat you, or (if you happen to be
a granny) alert you when Little Red Riding Hood is on her way to bring you the
goodies.  Now that's service. </para>

<sect1 id="the-autostart-folder">
<title>The Autostart Folder</title>

<para>Before I discovered the Autostart folder, my daily startup routine with
KDE consisted of the following: Start <application>KDE</application>, start
<application>KEdit</application>, start <application>Konsole</application>,
start <application>Netscape</application>, and start
<application>kscd</application>. This took time I could have spent
better. Native KDE programs left open at the end of a session will save their
state and reappear when you login again, but there are some programs (like
<application>Netscape</application>) that will not. You can use the
<filename>Autostart</filename> folder for these programs.</para>

<para>To launch programs when KDE is started, do the following:</para>

<procedure>
<step><para>Open the <filename>Autostart</filename> folder.  You will probably
find it in the top left corner of your desktop.</para></step>
<step><para>Open a <application>Konqueror</application> window and browse to the
program you want to add.  If you don't know how to do this, it was covered in
<xref linkend="the-filemanager-screen"/></para></step>
<step><para>Drag and drop the desired program from the
<application>Konqueror</application> window onto the
<filename>Autostart</filename> folder.  When asked, choose
<guimenuitem>Link</guimenuitem> to create a symbolic link rather than a full
copy, as this saves a great deal of disk space.</para></step>
<step><para>Repeat the above steps for every program you want started when KDE
is launched.  Remember, you don't need to add native KDE applications, just
leave them open when you log out, and they will open up again as if nothing had
happened, the next time you log in to KDE.</para></step>
<step><para>Restart KDE if you want to see the autostart function in
action.</para></step>

</procedure>

<para>Your programs should now launch automatically when KDE restarted. If you
want to add something special (<abbrev>e.g.</abbrev>, you want to see a certain
web site when your system goes up), read <link linkend="using-templates">Using
templates</link>. The procedures described there works for any folder, so you
can also apply them to the <filename>Autostart</filename> folder, as
well.</para>

</sect1>

<sect1 id="adding-programs">
<title>Adding Programs and Shortcut Icons to Your <guimenu>K menu</guimenu> and
Panel</title>


<para>The KDE <guimenu>K Menu</guimenu> and <application>panel</application> are
not limited to the setup you find right after installing KDE.  The KDE panel is
designed to be extended, and there are two ways of doing that: Adding new
programs, and adding shortcut icons.</para>

<sect2 id="menu-items-add">
<title>Adding menu entries</title>

<para>To add your favorite programs to the KDE panel, you can use the KDE Menu
Editor. To start it, use the <guiicon>application starter</guiicon> and choose
<menuchoice><guimenuitem>System</guimenuitem><guimenuitem>Menu
Editor</guimenuitem></menuchoice>.</para>

<para>A window will open showing the existing <guimenu>K Menu</guimenu> on the
left, and an empty menu entry dialog on the right</para>

<para>For this example, we will be adding an entry for the
<application>Gimp</application> under the <guisubmenu>Graphics</guisubmenu>
submenu.  If you already have a <guimenuitem>Gimp</guimenuitem> entry there and
don't want a new one, you can still follow through this example, and just don't
click the <guibutton>Apply</guibutton> when you are done.</para>

<procedure>
<step><para>Navigate down the left hand tree to the
<guisubmenu>Graphics</guisubmenu> entry.</para></step>
<step><para>Click on it once with the <mousebutton>left</mousebutton> mouse button to
expand the entry.</para></step>
<step><para>Click the icon labelled <guiicon>New Item</guiicon> in the toolbar,
or choose <menuchoice><guimenu>File</guimenu><guimenuitem>New
Item</guimenuitem></menuchoice> in the menu bar.</para></step>
<step><para>In the dialog box that pops up, enter the name you want your new
menu entry to have.  For this example, enter
<userinput>Gimp</userinput>.</para><para>Then press <guibutton>OK</guibutton> in
the dialog.</para></step>
<step><para>Click on the new <guimenuitem>Gimp</guimenuitem> menu entry that was
created for you in under the <guisubmenu>Graphics</guisubmenu>
submenu.  The menu entry dialog to the right will now change to be mostly empty,
except for the name you already gave.</para></step>
<step><para>Fill in an optional <guilabel>Comment</guilabel>.  You might like to
put <userinput>An image editor</userinput> for the example.  Text entered here
will be shown as a tool-tip in the <guimenu>Application
Starter</guimenu></para></step>
<step><para>Enter in the box labelled <guilabel>Command</guilabel>, the command
you would type on the command line to open your application.  For this example,
this is <command>gimp</command>.  You may also enter any optional command line
parameters if you wish.  You can use this to make a menu entry that
always opens 
a particular document or image, for example.  Check the application's
documentation to find out more about command line parameters.</para></step>
<step><para>If you want the application to operate from a particular directory
(for example, for <application>Gimp</application> to begin it's
<guilabel>Load Image</guilabel> dialog in a particular place) enter this
path in the box 
labelled <guilabel>Work Path</guilabel>.  This is optional.</para></step>
<step><para>If you wish to change the icon from the default "unknown", click on
the <guiicon>icon</guiicon> to the right of the dialog, to open a standard KDE
icon chooser.</para></step>
<step><para>Some applications must be <guilabel>run in a terminal</guilabel>
window (for example <application>Pine</application>).  If this is the case,
check the appropriate check box.</para></step>
<step><para>If you want to run your application as a different user, check the
box labelled <guilabel>Run as a different user</guilabel> and enter the
appropriate user name in the text box.</para></step>
<step><para>If you're happy with your menu entry, press
<guibutton>Apply</guibutton>.  If you would like to start over, press
<guibutton>Reset</guibutton>.</para></step>
</procedure>

<para>And that's all.  You now have a new menu entry.</para>

</sect2>

<sect2 id="icons-add">
<title>Shortcut Icons</title>

<para>Although KDE is much more comfortable than the average Unix window
manager, everyone wants a solution for a one-click way to start a
program. Later, you will learn how to create links and files on your desktop,
but this also has some disadvantages: sometimes all your desktops are filled up
with windows, and you cannot reach your icons without minimizing all the windows
that cover them. For commonly used programs, you can minimize this problem and
speed access by creating shortcut icons on the KDE panel.</para>

<para>To create a shortcut on the KDE panel, you have some choices:
Drag-and-drop, or via a menu. </para>

<procedure>
<title>Adding a shortcut icon with the menu</title>
<step><para>Click on the <guiicon>application starter</guiicon> and choose
<menuchoice><guisubmenu>Panel
Menu</guisubmenu><guisubmenu>Add</guisubmenu><guimenuitem>Application</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice>.</para></step>
<step><para>You will see the top level of the <guimenu>application
starter</guimenu> again. Go through the menus to find the entry for which you
want to create the shortcut, such as <guimenuitem>Home directory</guimenuitem>
or <guimenuitem>Konqueror</guimenuitem>. Click on the program you want.</para>
</step>
</procedure>

<para>A new icon will appear on the KDE panel. Click on it, and the program will
start.</para>

<para>Adding a shortcut icon with drag-and-drop is even simpler - just drag any
icon from your desktop or a <application>Konqueror</application> window, to an
empty space on the panel.</para>

<para>What happens when you drag an item to your panel depends on what kind of
item it was:</para>

<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term>If you drag a directory...</term>
<listitem><para>A menu will pop up giving you a choice of <guimenuitem>Add as a
File Manager URL</guimenuitem> or <guimenuitem>Add as a
QuickBrowser</guimenuitem>.  Choosing the first will make you an icon that opens
a <application>Konqueror</application> window, starting at this directory, while
choosing the latter will open that directory as a menu from the
Panel.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>If you drag a shortcut from your desktop...</term>
<listitem><para>It will be copied to the panel.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>If you drag a document...</term>
<listitem><para>A link will be made on the panel, leaving the original in
place. Clicking on the resulting icon will open that document in the default
application.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>

<para>In any case, if you want to move the icon, click on it using the
<mousebutton>right</mousebutton> mouse button and choose
<guimenuitem>Move.</guimenuitem> Move the icon to the position you want and
press the <mousebutton>left</mousebutton> mouse button.  If you wish to remove
the icon, click on it using the <mousebutton>right</mousebutton> mouse button
and choose <guimenuitem>Remove</guimenuitem>.  You can also move the icon by
clicking with the <mousebutton>middle</mousebutton> mouse button, and dragging
it to it's new location.</para>

</sect2>
</sect1>

<sect1 id="creating-new-files-on-your-desktop">
<title>Creating New Files On Your Desktop</title>

<para>Your desktop can be an efficient place to work. Every time you start KDE,
you can see the complete files, folders and URLs which you often use.</para>

<para>There are two ways to create and edit files on your desktop. In any
application, you can say that you want to save your work in the Desktop
subfolder of your home directory.  For example, my home directory is
<filename>/home/stupiddog</filename>, so my Desktop directory is
<filename>/home/stupiddog/Desktop</filename>. Everything you save there will be
put on your desktop.</para>

<para>If you want to move existing files to your Desktop, the best way to
achieve this is to use <application>Konqueror</application>. Open a file manager
window and drag the files you need to your desktop. You can choose to copy them
if you want to keep all your common stuff on the desktop now, or you can create
symbolic links to the real files. Everything you change in the link files will
be automatically updated in the originals. For more information on how to use
drag &amp; drop and the file manager, see the chapter <link
linkend="drag-and-drop">Moving files with drag &amp; drop.</link></para>

</sect1>

<sect1 id="using-templates">
<title>Placing Links on Your Desktop</title>

<para>Placing files on your desktop may shorten the paths you need to enter.
However, sometimes it would be nice if you could start
<application>KEdit</application> with a commonly edited file already opened in
it. And how often do you find yourself frustrated after browsing through endless
lists of bookmarks to find a site you visit often?  Wouldn't it be nice if
everything necessary to deliver you to that site was done automatically after
clicking a single icon?</para>

<sect2 id="using-mimetype">
<title>Using Templates</title>

<para>Templates provide a convenient mechanism for performing tasks such as
those outlined above.  Templates can also be used to associate particular file
extensions with a specific application.  When a file ending in a known extension
is double-clicked, the application associated with that extension is
automatically started.  In short, <emphasis>templates</emphasis> help
you get the most out of KDE.</para> 

<para>Example: You want to put an icon for visiting the KDE web site on your
desktop.</para>

<procedure>
<step><para><mousebutton>Right</mousebutton> click on an empty space in the
desktop.</para></step>
<step><para>Choose <menuchoice><guisubmenu>Create
new</guisubmenu><guimenuitem>Internet Address (URL)</guimenuitem></menuchoice>
from the context menu.</para></step>
<step><para>A dialog box will open where you can type in the address you are
making a shortcut to.</para></step>
<step><para>A new icon will be created on your desktop.</para></step>
</procedure>

<para>Your new internet shortcut can be customised like any other shortcut
icon.  <mousebutton>Right</mousebutton> click on the icon and choose
<guimenuitem>Properties</guimenuitem>, and you can change the icon, or the name
of the shortcut as you wish.</para>

</sect2>
<sect2>

<title>Using MIME Types</title>

<para>MIME Types are very powerful. Employing them, you can easily customize your
system
such that clicking on a file of a specific type starts the application with which
that
file type has been associated.  For example, all .mod files could be set to start
<emphasis>kmodplayer</emphasis>, .html files could open a <emphasis>kfm</emphasis> window showing the file,
and a core file can be viewed with the Hex Editor by simply clicking on the core
file.
<emphasis>Warning:</emphasis> Although MIME types are very powerful, they are not
without dangers. Playing around with MIME types as the system administrator
(root) can damage a KDE system so severely that cannot be restarted! In
this example, you will create your <emphasis>personal</emphasis> MIME style, which is only
relevant for you. It will only affect other users if you copy or move it to
/opt/share/mimelnk.</para>

<para>To link a certain file type with a particular application:</para>

<procedure>
<step><para>Make sure the application you want to start this file type has an
entry in the <guimenu>Application Starter</guimenu> menu.</para></step>
<step><para>In <application>Konqueror</application> find or make a file with the
extension you wish to link.</para></step>
<step><para><mousebutton>Right</mousebutton> click on the file, and choose
<guimenuitem>Edit File Type</guimenuitem> from the context menu, or choose
<menuchoice><guimenu>Edit</guimenu><guimenuitem>Edit File
Type</guimenuitem></menuchoice> in <application>Konqueror</application>'s menu
bar.</para></step>

<step><para>Add file masks for the application by clicking the
<guibutton>Add</guibutton> button, and entering the file pattern you
want. Remember that Unix is case sensitive, so you may need to add variations -
*.mp3 may need *.MP3 added as well, for example.  Add as many extensions as you
like in this way.</para></step>
<step><para>Add a description if you like.  This is optional.</para></step>
<step><para>In the section labelled <guilabel>Application Preference
Order</guilabel>, press the <guibutton>Add</guibutton> button.  A miniature copy
of the <guimenu>Application Starter</guimenu> menu will open, where you can
choose the application you want files of this type to be opened
with.</para></step>
<step><para>Sometimes, you may want to use a different application to open this
file type.  For example, you might like to use <application>KWrite</application>
to open text files you wish to edit, and <application>KEdit</application> for
text files that you just want to take a quick peek into.  You can add more
applications in the same way as you did in the last step, and you can change the
preferred order using the <guibutton>Move Up</guibutton> and <guibutton>Move
Down</guibutton> buttons.</para></step>
<step><para>If you're satisfied with your choices, you can click the
<guibutton>Apply</guibutton> button to save your changes without closing the
dialog box.  This gives you the opportunity to test in the
<application>Konqueror</application> window that your file association is
correct.  You can choose <guibutton>OK</guibutton> to save your changes and
close the dialog box, or <guibutton>Cancel</guibutton> if you have changed your
mind and just want to close the dialog box.</para></step>
</procedure>
  
<para>Be sure to try your new association by opening a directory containing a
file of the type you just selected. Click on the file, and the program needed to
edit it should start.</para>

</sect2>

</sect1>

<sect1 id="using-the-trashcan">
<title>Using the Trashcan</title>

<para>Under normal circumstances, deleting a file under UNIX is something which
cannot be undone. However, with the KDE file manager, you can choose
<guimenuitem>Move to Trash</guimenuitem> instead of
<guimenuitem>Delete</guimenuitem>. This will move the file into the
<filename>Trash</filename> Folder, which, by default, is accessible as an icon
on your desktop. In the <filename>Trash</filename> Folder, you can always
recover deleted files.  Remember to empty the trashcan regularly by clicking on
it using the right mouse button, then choosing <guimenuitem>Empty
trashcan</guimenuitem>, otherwise you might run out of disk space because the
files still need space. Note, however, that once you empty the
<filename>Trash</filename> Folder, the files contained therein are lost
forever.</para>

</sect1>
</chapter>

<chapter id="shortcuts">
<title>Tips &amp; Tricks for Your Daily Work </title>

<epigraph>
<attribution>Fortune Cookies</attribution>
<para>Everyone can make an omelet with eggs. The trick is to make one
with none.</para>
</epigraph>

<para>Nearly everyone can use KDE; this is why the developers made it.  There
are no cryptic switches with which to cope, and few configuration files you need
edit in <acronym>ASCII</acronym> style. However, there are some ways you can do
your work more elegantly, saving you time for the truly important things, like
tetris.</para>

<sect1 id="shortcut-table">
<title>Shortcut Table </title>

<variablelist>

<varlistentry>
<term><keycombo><keycap>Alt</keycap><keycap>Tab</keycap>
</keycombo>or
<keycombo><keycap>Alt</keycap><keycap>Shift</keycap><keycap>Tab</keycap></keycombo></term>
<listitem><para>Cycle through the windows </para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><keycombo><keycap>Ctrl</keycap><keycap>Tab</keycap> </keycombo> or
<keycombo><keycap>Ctrl</keycap><keycap>Shift</keycap><keycap>Tab</keycap>
</keycombo></term>
<listitem><para>Cycle through your desktops </para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><keycombo><keycap>Alt</keycap><keycap>F2</keycap>
</keycombo></term>
<listitem><para>Mini Command line</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><keycombo><keycap>Alt</keycap><keycap>F3</keycap></keycombo></term>
<listitem><para>Window Menu </para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><keycombo><keycap>Alt</keycap><keycap>F4</keycap>
</keycombo></term>
<listitem><para>Close the current window </para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><keycombo><keycap>Ctrl</keycap><keycap>F{1..8}</keycap></keycombo></term>
<listitem><para>Switch to a specific desktop </para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><keycombo><keycap>Ctrl</keycap><keycap>Alt</keycap><keycap>Esc</keycap>
</keycombo></term>
<listitem><para>Window destroyer (every window you click on will be destroyed)
</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><keycombo><keycap>Ctrl</keycap><keycap>Alt</keycap><keycap>Backspace</keycap>
</keycombo></term>
<listitem><para>This exits KDE (without saving!) Use this as a last resort
</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term><keycombo><keycap>Ctrl</keycap><keycap>Alt</keycap><keycap>Numpad
+</keycap></keycombo></term>
<listitem><para>Cycles to the next screen resolution</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><keycombo><keycap>Ctrl</keycap><keycap>Alt</keycap><keycap>Numpad
-</keycap> </keycombo></term>
<listitem><para>Cycles to the previous screen resolution </para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>

</sect1>

<sect1 id="mouse-techniques">
<title>Mouse Techniques </title>

<variablelist>

<varlistentry>
<term>Clicking on the border or the titlebar</term>
<listitem>
<variablelist>

<varlistentry>
<term><mousebutton>Left</mousebutton></term>
<listitem><para>Activates and raises the window.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><mousebutton>Middle</mousebutton></term>
<listitem><para>Lowers the window</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><mousebutton>Right</mousebutton></term>
<listitem><para>Shows the <guimenu>Window menu</guimenu> if the window is
active, otherwise activates the window.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>Doubleclick on the window title</term>
<listitem><para>Shades the window </para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>Drag on the titlebar</term>
<listitem><para>Moves the window around </para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>Drag on corners or edges</term>
<listitem><para>Resizes the window </para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><keycombo><keycap>Alt</keycap><mousebutton>Left</mousebutton></keycombo>
Button</term>
<listitem><para>Moves the window around </para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><keycombo><keycap>Alt</keycap><mousebutton>Middle</mousebutton>
</keycombo> Button</term>
<listitem><para>Raises the window </para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><keycombo><keycap>Alt</keycap><mousebutton>Right</mousebutton>
</keycombo> Button</term>
<listitem><para>Resizes the window </para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>Click on the Icon on the top left</term>
<listitem><para>Close the application</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term>Click on the Sticky Button</term>
<listitem><para>toggles sticky </para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>Clicking on Maximize</term>
<listitem>
<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term><mousebutton>Left</mousebutton></term>
<listitem><para>Maximizes the window</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term><mousebutton>Middle</mousebutton></term>
<listitem><para>Maximizes only vertically</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term><mousebutton>Right</mousebutton></term>
<listitem><para>Maximizes horizontally</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>

<!-- LW FIXME START -->


</sect1>

</chapter>

<chapter id="kdebase-applications">
<title>kdebase applications</title>
<para>You can get the following applications in the kdebase
distributions.</para>

<para>Stable applications are relatively bug free and come in source and binary
formats.</para>

<para><ulink
url="ftp://ftp.kde.org/pub/kde/stable/latest/distribution/">ftp.kde.org/pub/kde/stable/latest/distribution/stable</ulink></para>

<para>Unstable versions change daily and are only in source form, meaning you
must compile them to get a working version.  Remember these are unstable and
might not even compile.  If you have a problem with an unstable application
report the problem and it will most likely be fixed in a future snapshot.</para>
<para><ulink
url="ftp://ftp.kde.org/pub/kde/unstable/CVS/snapshots/current/">ftp.kde.org/pub/kde/unstable/CVS/snapshots/current</ulink></para>

<variablelist>

<varlistentry>
<term><application>KWin</application></term>
<listitem><para>KDE's own window manager</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><application>Konqueror</application></term>
<listitem><para>Browse the web, your hard drive or an FTP site with equal
ease.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><application>Kicker</application></term>
<listitem><para>The KDE panel, incorporating the taskbar, pager, clock and the
<guimenu>K</guimenu> menu.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><application>Konsole</application></term>
<listitem><para>A highly configurable X terminal emulator.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><application>Klipper</application></term>
<listitem><para>A clipboard utility with a difference - you can configure
different actions based on things you copy.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><application>KDesktop</application></term>
<listitem><para>The desktop itself.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><application>KHelpcenter</application></term>
<listitem><para>KDE's own help center, including the ability to browse man and
info pages.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><application>kdm</application></term>
<listitem><para>KDE's login manager</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><application>KControl</application></term>
<listitem><para>The Control Panel.  Almost everything you can configure in KDE
can be configured from here - and almost everything in KDE can be configured to
your taste.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><application>KWrite</application></term>
<listitem><para>A highly configurable text editor, with syntax
highlighting.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><application>Kappfinder</application></term>
<listitem><para>A Utility to add non-KDE applications to your
<guimenu>K</guimenu> menu, to save you needing to do it
manually.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><application>KScreensaver</application></term>
<listitem><para>Everyone loves a screensaver, and KDE comes with a generous
helping.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><application>KSysguard</application></term>
<listitem><para>A Network enabled system monitor, incorporating the added
functionality of <application>top</application></para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><application>Ktip</application></term>
<listitem><para>Kandalf the wizard is on hand with handy hints, and interesting
info.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><application>KMenuedit</application></term>
<listitem><para>Rearrange or add to your <guimenu>K</guimenu> menu with this
utility.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><application>DrKonqi</application></term>
<listitem><para>The crash handler, including the ability to report bugs direct
to the developers.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

</variablelist>

</chapter>

<chapter id="kdeadmin-applications">
<title>kdeadmin applications</title>

<para>You can get the following applications in the kdeadmin
distributions.</para>

<para>Stable applications are relatively bug free and come in source and binary
formats.</para>

<para><ulink
url="ftp://ftp.kde.org/pub/kde/stable/latest/distribution/">ftp.kde.org/pub/kde/stable/latest/distribution/stable</ulink></para>

<para>Unstable versions change daily and are only in source form, meaning you
must compile them to get a working version.  Remember these are unstable and
might not even compile.  If you have a problem with an unstable application
report the problem and it will most likely be fixed in a future snapshot.</para>
<para><ulink
url="ftp://ftp.kde.org/pub/kde/unstable/CVS/snapshots/current/">ftp.kde.org/pub/kde/unstable/CVS/snapshots/current</ulink></para>

<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term><application>Kcron</application></term>
<listitem><para>KDE puts a pretty and user friendly face on the task scheduling
capabilities of <application>Cron</application></para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><application>Kuser</application></term>
<listitem><para>A graphical user manager (requires root privileges to
run)</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><application>KPackage</application></term>
<listitem><para>Keep your system up to date with KDE's own package
manager.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><application>Kdat</application></term>
<listitem><para>A backup utility for tape drive owners.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><application>ksysv</application></term>
<listitem><para>A SysV-Init editor, to keep your computers start up
organised.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><application>kwuftpd</application></term>
<listitem><para>A graphical interface to configure the
<application>wuftpd</application> ftp daemon.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><application>KSysctrl</application></term>
<listitem><para>Find out what's really in your computer - a system info
utility.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>

</chapter>

<chapter id="kdepim-applications">
<title>kdepim applications</title>

<para>You can get the following applications in the kdeadmin
distributions.</para>

<para>Stable applications are relatively bug free and come in source and binary
formats.</para>

<para><ulink
url="ftp://ftp.kde.org/pub/kde/stable/latest/distribution/">ftp.kde.org/pub/kde/stable/latest/distribution/stable</ulink></para>

<para>Unstable versions change daily and are only in source form, meaning you
must compile them to get a working version.  Remember these are unstable and
might not even compile.  If you have a problem with an unstable application
report the problem and it will most likely be fixed in a future snapshot.</para>
<para><ulink
url="ftp://ftp.kde.org/pub/kde/unstable/CVS/snapshots/current/">ftp.kde.org/pub/kde/unstable/CVS/snapshots/current</ulink></para>



<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term><application>Korganizer</application></term>
<listitem><para>Organise your time with this handy calendar, diary, and task
scheduler.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><application>Kab2</application></term>
<listitem><para>The KDE Address book.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><application>kpilot</application></term>
<listitem><para>A Utility to synchronise your Palm Pilot with your pc.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>
</chapter>

<chapter id="entertainment-applications">
<title>Entertainment Applications</title>

<para>You can get the following applications in the kdegames distributions.</para>

<para>Stable applications are relatively bug free and come in source and binary
formats.</para>

<para><ulink
url="ftp://ftp.kde.org/pub/kde/stable/latest/distribution/">ftp.kde.org/pub/kde/stable/latest/distribution/stable</ulink></para>
<para>Unstable versions change daily and are only in source form, meaning you
must compile them to get a working version.  Remember these are unstable and
might not even compile.  If you have a problem with an unstable application
report the problem and it will most likely be fixed in a future snapshot.</para>
<para><ulink
url="ftp://ftp.kde.org/pub/kde/unstable/CVS/snapshots/current/">ftp.kde.org/pub/kde/unstable/CVS/snapshots/current</ulink></para>

<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term><application>KAbalone</application></term>
<listitem><para>A Network enabled boardgame you can play against the computer or
against another player on your network.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><application>KAsteroids</application></term>
<listitem><para>
A little space shoot-em-up.
</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><application>KAtomic</application></term>
<listitem><para>
A perplexing little logic puzzle game, where you get to build your own molecules.
</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><application>KBlackbox</application></term>
<listitem><para>
A KDE rewrite of the classic <application>Emacs</application> blackbox game.
</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><application>KJumpingCube</application></term>
<listitem><para>
A tactical one or two player game that's harder than it looks.
</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><application>KMahjongg</application></term>
<listitem><para>
The classic tile matching game.
</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><application>KMines</application></term>
<listitem><para>
Find the mines without making them explode.
</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><application>Konquest</application></term>
<listitem><para>
Expand your interstellar empire across the galaxy and of course, crush your
rivals in the process.
</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><application>KPat</application></term>
<listitem><para>
No computer is complete without Patience.
</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><application>KPoker</application></term>
<listitem><para>
A KDE version of those addictive one armed bandits.
</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><application>KReversi</application></term>
<listitem><para>
A KDE version of the classic game.
</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><application>KSame</application></term>
<listitem><para>
Addictive little logic game.
</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><application>KShisen</application></term>
<listitem><para>
Another tile matching game.
</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><application>KSirtet</application></term>
<listitem><para>
Play either a version of Tetris, or the well known (in Japan) game Puyo-Puyo.
</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><application>KSmiletris</application></term>
<listitem><para>
A slightly different from the norm Tetris clone.
</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><application>KSnake</application></term>
<listitem><para>
The classic nibbles game gets an update and a speed boost.
</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><application>KSokoban</application></term>
<listitem><para>
Push those crates to get where you need to go.
</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><application>KSpaceDuel</application></term>
<listitem><para>
Shoot your enemy down, in a challenging two player arcade game.
</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><application>KTron</application></term>
<listitem><para>
Classic keep-away - keep away from your foe, the walls, and your own tail.
</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><application>KTuberling</application></term>
<listitem><para>
One for the littlies, who could resist the potato guy?
</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>


<varlistentry>
<term><application>Lskat</application></term>
<listitem><para>
A tricky card game
</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>
</chapter>

<chapter id="graphical-applications">
<title>Graphical Applications</title>
<para>You can get the following Applications in the kdegraphics distributions.</para>
<para>Stable applications are relatively bug free and come in source and binary
formats.</para>

<para><ulink
url="ftp://ftp.kde.org/pub/kde/stable/latest/distribution/">ftp.kde.org/pub/kde/stable/latest/distribution/stable</ulink></para>

<para>Unstable versions change daily and are only in source form, meaning you
must compile them to get a working version.  Remember these are unstable and
might not even compile.  If you have a problem with an unstable application
report the problem and it will most likely be fixed in a future snapshot.</para>
<para><ulink
url="ftp://ftp.kde.org/pub/kde/unstable/CVS/snapshots/current/">ftp.kde.org/pub/kde/unstable/CVS/snapshots/current</ulink></para>

<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term><application>Pixie</application></term>
<listitem><para>
An image editor with a difference
</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><application>KSnapshot</application></term>
<listitem><para>
A utility to grab screenshots.
</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>


<varlistentry>
<term><application>KFract</application></term>
<listitem><para>
A little fractal generator
</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>


<varlistentry>
<term><application>kview</application></term>
<listitem><para>
A powerful image viewer, capable of handling a multitude of formats.
</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>


<varlistentry>
<term><application>Kghostview</application></term>
<listitem><para>
KDE's own Postscript viewer.
</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>


<varlistentry>
<term><application>kfax</application> and <application>Kfaxview</application></term>
<listitem><para>
Utilities to view and handle facsimile images.
</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>


<varlistentry>
<term><application>kdvi</application></term>
<listitem><para>
A DVI viewer.
</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>

</chapter>

<chapter id="multimedia-applications">
<title>Multimedia Applications</title>

<para>You can get the following applications in the kdemultimedia
distributions.</para>

<para>Stable applications are relatively bug free and come in source and binary
formats.</para>

<para><ulink
url="ftp://ftp.kde.org/pub/kde/stable/latest/distribution/">ftp.kde.org/pub/kde/stable/latest/distribution/stable</ulink></para>

<para>Unstable versions change daily and are only in source form, meaning you
must compile them to get a working version.  Remember these are unstable and
might not even compile.  If you have a problem with an unstable application
report the problem and it will most likely be fixed in a future snapshot.</para>

<para><ulink
url="ftp://ftp.kde.org/pub/kde/unstable/CVS/snapshots/current/">ftp.kde.org/pub/kde/unstable/CVS/snapshots/current</ulink></para>

<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term><application>KMix</application></term>
<listitem><para>A sound mixer panel</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><application>AKtion</application></term>
<listitem><para>A player for movies and animations, with support for many
formats.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>&noatun;</term>
<listitem><para>A Media player for sound files, with support for many
formats.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><application>KSCD</application></term>
<listitem><para>A CD Player for KDE, with CDDB support.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><application>kmid</application></term>
<listitem><para>
A midi player with support for lyrics.. your very own Karaoke machine!
</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><application>KMidi</application></term>
<listitem><para>
A nice sounding but somewhat CPU intensive midi player
</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>

</chapter>

<chapter id="network-applications">
<title>Network Applications </title>
<para>You can get the following applications in the kdenetwork distributions.</para>
<para>Stable applications are relatively bug free and come in source and binary formats.</para>
<para><ulink url="ftp://ftp.kde.org/pub/kde/stable/latest/distribution/">ftp.kde.org/pub/kde/stable/latest/distribution/stable</ulink> </para>
<para>Unstable versions change daily and are only in source form, meaning you
must compile them to get a working version.  Remember these are unstable
and might not even compile.  If you have a problem with an unstable application
report the problem and it will most likely be fixed in a future snapshot.</para>
<para><ulink
url="ftp://ftp.kde.org/pub/kde/unstable/CVS/snapshots/current/">ftp.kde.org/pub/kde/unstable/CVS/snapshots/current</ulink></para>

<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term><application>KMail</application></term>
<listitem><para>A fully featured email client, allowing multiple servers and
multiple identities.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><application>KNode</application></term>
<listitem><para>A powerful usenet news client, with support for multiple NNTP
servers.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><application>Keystone</application></term>
<listitem><para>A KDE VNC viewer application.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><application>Kit</application></term>
<listitem><para>An AOL Instant Messenger client, using the <abbrev>TOC</abbrev>
protocol.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><application>KSirc</application></term>
<listitem><para>An IRC Client</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><application>Korn</application></term>
<listitem><para>A Biff applet.  <application>Korn</application> checks for new
mail and tells you when there is mail to download from your
server(s).</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><application>KPPP</application></term>
<listitem><para>An internet dialer.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><application>KTalkd</application></term>
<listitem><para>
<!-- Need a description -->
</para></listitem>

</varlistentry>
</variablelist>
</chapter>

<chapter id="utility-applications">
<title>Utility Applications</title>
<para>You can get the following applications in the kdeutils
distributions.</para>


<para>Stable applications are relatively bug free and come in source and binary
formats.</para>

<para><ulink
url="ftp://ftp.kde.org/pub/kde/stable/latest/distribution/">ftp.kde.org/pub/kde/stable/latest/distribution/stable</ulink></para>

<para>Unstable versions change daily and are only in source form, meaning you
must compile them to get a working version.  Remember these are unstable and
might not even compile.  If you have a problem with an unstable application
report the problem and it will most likely be fixed in a future snapshot.</para>


<para><ulink
url="ftp://ftp.kde.org/pub/kde/unstable/CVS/snapshots/current/">ftp.kde.org/pub/kde/unstable/CVS/snapshots/current</ulink></para>

<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term><application>Kab</application></term>
<listitem><para>Another way of looking a the KDE Address book</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><application>kcharselect</application></term>
<listitem><para>Character selector (shows all characters available in a given
font, including those you don't have keys on your keyboard for)</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><application>kdepasswd</application></term>
<listitem><para>A KDE front end to the Unix passwd command.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><application>kdessh</application></term>
<listitem><para>A KDE front end to ssh. </para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><application>kdf</application></term>
<listitem><para>A KDE front end to the <application>df</application> utility,
with added functionality</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><application>Kfloppy</application></term>
<listitem><para>A floppy formatter</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><application>KEdit</application></term>
<listitem><para>A small, simple editor, just like
the well-known Notepad. It is suitable for small editing tasks, or
as a simple textfile browser. </para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><application>KFind</application></term>
<listitem><para><application>Kfind</application> is a graphical replacement for
the utility <application>find</application></para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><application>KArm</application></term>
<listitem><para>A time tracker. You can enter a list of "tasks", start
<application>KArm</application>'s clock, and it will count the number of minutes you spend on the highlighted task.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><application>KHexedit</application></term>
<listitem><para>A fully featured Hex Editor</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><application>KJots</application></term>
<listitem><para>A small note taker program.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><application>klaptopdaemon</application></term>
<listitem><para>Provides battery monitoring and management
for laptops</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>


<varlistentry>
<term><application>KLjettool</application></term>
<listitem><para>An HP LaserJet Control Panel</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><application>Klpq</application></term>
<listitem><para>Klpq is a frontend to <application>lpq</application>,
<application>lprm</application> and <application>lpc</application>.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><application>KNotes</application></term>
<listitem><para>A useable and good looking notes utility.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><application>Kpm</application></term>
<listitem><para> A utility including functionality from
<application>top</application> and <application>ps</application>
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>

</chapter>

<chapter id="frequently-asked-questions">
<title>Frequently Asked Questions About KDE </title>

<epigraph>
<attribution>Batman Animated Series</attribution>
<para>What are you?</para>
<para>I'm your worst nightmare...</para>
</epigraph>

<para>There are some questions that are always raised on the KDE mailing
lists. To keep the traffic as low as possible (making the lists more readable),
we have included them in this section. So please be kind and do not ask them in
the mailing lists anymore - think of the quote above! </para>

<qandaset id="faq">
<qandaentry>
<question><para>What does "KDE" stand for?</para></question>
<answer><para>KDE stands for the <emphasis>"K Desktop Environment",</emphasis>
which itself is intended to be a collection of small tools, a window manager, a
file manager and tools that bring all this together.  It is created to make your
life with UNIX easier. </para></answer>
</qandaentry>
<qandaentry>
<question><para>I cannot compile package xxx</para></question>
<answer><para>Always be sure that you have the newest version of the KDE
libraries installed. The software is in constant development, so the
dependencies can change from one day to another. You may also find the <link
linkend="source-distribution">general compilation hints</link> helpful. Another
problem could be that you are using a program written for a very old version of
KDE, which depends on outdated include files. Please check the file dates. They
should be more recent the dates of your current KDE version.  </para></answer>
</qandaentry>
<qandaentry>
<question><para>KDE is not stable?</para></question>
<answer><para>One can, in general, obtain KDE in many ways.  Obtaining
pre-compiled binaries in a package format (rpm,deb,tgz) labelled with a
particular version (<abbrev>i.e.</abbrev> 2.2) is the best way to encourage
stability on your KDE desktop.  </para>
<para>The price of stability is that one must wait for each release to get new
features.  If you want the latest and greatest versions of software, you may
have to go with source code, perhaps even to the point of <abbrev>CVS</abbrev>
snapshots.  These are daily snapshots of whatever the developers are working on,
and some things are guaranteed to be broken.</para>
<para>DO NOT RELY ON <abbrev>CVS</abbrev> SNAPSHOTS TO MAINTAIN
OPERATIONAL DESKTOPS. You will get burned eventually!</para>
</answer>
</qandaentry>
</qandaset>

</chapter>

<chapter id="more-help">
<title>Further Help</title>

<sect1 id="mailing-lists">
<title>Other Sources for Help </title>

<para>Take a look at the <ulink url="http://www.kde.org">KDE Web-Site</ulink>
for the most up-to-date information available about KDE on the web. You may also
want to subscribe to our mailing lists. </para>

<para>Send mail to the specified address with <userinput>subscribe</userinput>
<userinput>your email address</userinput> in the subject line in order subscribe: </para>

<simplelist>
<member>KDE common mailing list, <email>kde-request@kde.org</email>
</member>
<member>KDE developers' mailing list,
<email>kde-devel-request@kde.org</email></member>
<member>KDE look and feel discussions,
<email>kde-look-request@kde.org</email></member>
<member>KDE announcements,
<email>kde-announce-request@kde.org</email></member>
<member>KDE licensing questions,
<email>kde-licensing-request@kde.org</email></member>
<member>KDE users' list,
<email>kde-user-request@kde.org</email></member>
<member>KDE Documenters' list,
<email>kde-doc-request@kde.org</email></member>
</simplelist>

</sect1>
</chapter>

<chapter id="docu-staff">
<title>Epilogue </title>

<epigraph>
<attribution>The end of Evita</attribution>
<para>She had her moments, she had some style, 
the best show in town was the crowd, 
outside the Casa Rosada crying 
'Eva Peron'; but that's all gone now...</para></epigraph>

<para>We hope that you found this documentation useful, informative and perhaps
even entertaining. The following things are not necessary to understand the KDE
Desktop Environment, but you still may want to read it. </para>

<sect1 id="the-k-documentation-staff">
<title>The K Documentation Staff </title>

<para>This User Guide has been updated for 2.0, and is currently maintained by
Lauri Watts <email>vampyr@atconnex.net</email></para>

<para>Others who have contributed to this guide.</para>
<itemizedlist>
<listitem><para>Pablo de Vicente <email>vicente@oan.es</email>, who updated the
section regarding installing on Debian for KDE 2.0</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>Andreas Buschka <email>andi@circe.tops.net</email></para></listitem>
<listitem><para>Robert D. Williams <email>rwilliam@kde.org</email></para></listitem>
<listitem><para>Poul Gerhard</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>John Waalkes</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>Vernon Wells</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>Kay Lutz</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>Stephan Kulow</para></listitem>
</itemizedlist>
</sect1>

<sect1 id="we-still-need-people">
<title>We still need people! </title>

<para>KDE is a huge project, and every KDE supporter has already realized
that. All of us are trying very hard to create a user interface that is easy to
use and maybe also has the potential to make UNIX ready for the desktop PC. You
have the chance to participate in this project too, and we would be thankful if
you did. Developers and interested users communicate via several mailing lists
described in <xref linkend="mailing-lists"/>. If you would like to help, please
do so! We are still looking for helpers in the following departments: </para>

<itemizedlist>
<listitem><para>Development (Libraries and Applications)</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>Documentation</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>Graphics</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>Beta-Testing</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>and everywhere else, too :-) </para></listitem>
</itemizedlist>

</sect1>

<sect1 id="legal-notices">
<title>Legal notices </title>

<para>This document contains copyrighted material from Andreas Buschka, Gerhard
Poul and Robert David Williams. All trademarks and branded names mentioned are
properties of their legal owners. </para>

</sect1>

<sect1 id="sources-of-information-used-during-the-creat">
<title>Sources of information used during the creation of this book </title>

<para>During the creation of this documentation, the authors used the following
sources for information: </para>

<itemizedlist>
<listitem><para>The KDE Mailing lists </para></listitem>
<listitem><para>Various <filename>README</filename> and <abbrev>HTML</abbrev>
help files that came with the KDE components </para></listitem>
</itemizedlist>

</sect1>

<sect1 id="license">
<title>License</title>

&underFDL;

</sect1>
</chapter>
</book>
<!--
Local Variables:
mode: sgml
sgml-omittag:nil
sgml-shorttag:t
sgml-namecase-general:t
sgml-general-insert-case:lower
sgml-minimize-attributes:nil
sgml-always-quote-attributes:t
sgml-indent-step:0
sgml-indent-data:nil
sgml-parent-document:nil
sgml-exposed-tags:nil
sgml-local-catalogs:nil
sgml-local-ecat-files:nil
End:
-->

