<?xml version="1.0" ?>
<!DOCTYPE glossary PUBLIC "-//KDE//DTD DocBook XML V4.1-Based Variant V1.0//EN"
"customization/dtd/kdex.dtd" [
<!ENTITY % addindex "IGNORE">
<!ENTITY % English "INCLUDE">
]>

<glossary id="glossary">
	<glossdiv id="glossdiv-technologies">
		<title>Technologies</title>
		<glossentry id="gloss-ioslave">
			<glossterm><acronym>IO</acronym> Slave</glossterm>
			<glossdef><para><acronym>IO</acronym> Slaves enable &kde; applications to
				access remote resources as easily as local resources (making them
				<quote>network transparent</quote>). Remote resources (&eg; files) might
				be stored on <acronym>SMB</acronym> shares or similar.</para>
				<glossseealso otherterm="gloss-smb"><acronym>SMB</acronym></glossseealso>
				<glossseealso otherterm="gloss-kde">&kde;</glossseealso>
			</glossdef>
		</glossentry>
		<glossentry id="gloss-kio">
			<glossterm>KIO</glossterm>
			<glossdef><para>The &kde; Input/Output system which makes use of so-called
				<quote><acronym>IO</acronym> Slaves</quote>.</para>
				<glossseealso otherterm="gloss-ioslave"><acronym>IO</acronym> Slave</glossseealso>
				<glossseealso otherterm="gloss-kde">&kde;</glossseealso>
			</glossdef>
		</glossentry>
		<glossentry id="gloss-kparts">
			<glossterm>KParts</glossterm>
			<glossdef><para>KParts is an embedding technology which allows &kde;
				applications to embed other &kde; applications. The text view used by
				&konqueror; is for example a KPart.</para>
				<glossseealso otherterm="gloss-konqueror">&konqueror;</glossseealso>
			</glossdef>
		</glossentry>
		<glossentry id="gloss-ksycoca">
			<glossterm>KSyCoCa</glossterm>
			<glossdef><para>KSyCoCa (&kde; <emphasis>Sy</emphasis>tem
				<emphasis>Co</emphasis>nfiguration <emphasis>Ca</emphasis>che) is a
				configuration cache which guarantees for example fast access to the menu
				entries.</para>
				<glossseealso otherterm="gloss-kbuildsycoca">KBuildsycoca</glossseealso>
			</glossdef>
		</glossentry>
	</glossdiv>
	
	<glossdiv id="glossdiv-xfree86">
		<title>XFree86</title>
		<glossentry id="gloss-antialiasing">
			<glossterm>Antialiasing</glossterm>
			<glossdef><para>If mentioned in context with &kde;, antialiasing means
				often the smoothing of the fonts visible on the screen. &Qt; version 2.3.0
				or higher used together with XFree86 4.x makes this possible under &kde;
				as well.</para>
				<glossseealso otherterm="gloss-kde">&kde;</glossseealso>
				<glossseealso otherterm="gloss-qt">Qt</glossseealso>
			</glossdef>
		</glossentry>
		<glossentry id="gloss-xserver">
			<glossterm>X Server</glossterm>
			<glossdef><para>The X server represents a basic layers upon which the
				various <acronym>GUI</acronym>s like &kde; are built. It manages the
				basic mouse and keyboard input (from the local host as well as from
				remote hosts) and provides elementary graphic routines to draw
				rectangles and other primitives.</para>
				<glossseealso otherterm="gloss-kde">&kde;</glossseealso>
				<glossseealso otherterm="gloss-gui"><acronym>GUI</acronym></glossseealso>
			</glossdef>
		</glossentry>
	</glossdiv>
	<glossdiv id="glossdiv-applications">
		<title>Applications</title>
		<glossentry id="gloss-kbuildsycoca">
			<glossterm>KBuildsycoca</glossterm>
			<glossdef><para>KBuildsycoca is a command line program and regenerates the
				so-called KSycoca. This is for example useful if some or all modules in
				&kcontrol; are missing.</para>
				<glossseealso otherterm="gloss-ksycoca">KSycoca</glossseealso>
				<glossseealso otherterm="gloss-kcontrol">&kcontrol;</glossseealso>
			</glossdef>
		</glossentry>
		<glossentry id="gloss-kcontrol">
			<glossterm>&kcontrol;</glossterm>
			<glossdef><para>This is the project and filename of the &kde; control
				center. The &kde; control center allows you to customize virtually
				every configuration option of &kde;.</para>
				<glossseealso otherterm="gloss-kde">&kde;</glossseealso>
			</glossdef>
		</glossentry>
		<glossentry id="gloss-kicker">
			<glossterm>&kicker;</glossterm>
			<glossdef><para>&kicker; is the nickname as well as project name of the
				&kde; panel.</para>
				<glossseealso otherterm="gloss-kde">&kde;</glossseealso>
				<glossseealso otherterm="gloss-panel">Panel</glossseealso>
			</glossdef>
		</glossentry>
		<glossentry id="gloss-konqueror">
			<glossterm>&konqueror;</glossterm>
			<glossdef><para>&konqueror; is a filemanager, web browser, picture viewer,
				you name it multitalent and a core part of the &kde; project. You can
				find more information about &konqueror; at <ulink
				url="http://www.konqueror.org">www.konqueror.org</ulink>.</para>
				<glossseealso otherterm="gloss-kde">&kde;</glossseealso>
			</glossdef>
		</glossentry>
		<glossentry id="gloss-ksirc">
			<glossterm>&ksirc;</glossterm>
			<glossdef><para>&ksirc; is the default <acronym>IRC</acronym> client,
				which is shipped with &kde;. You can use &ksirc; to chat with anyone on
				an <acronym>IRC</acronym> network.</para>
				<glossseealso otherterm="gloss-irc"><acronym>IRC</acronym></glossseealso>
			</glossdef>
		</glossentry>			 	
	</glossdiv>
	
	<glossdiv id="glossdiv-desktop-terminology">
		<title>Desktop Terminology</title>
		<glossentry id="gloss-draganddrop">
			<glossterm>Drag and Drop</glossterm>
			<glossdef><para>This concept tries to replace many actions like copying
				files from one place to another by a certain mouse movement, &eg;
				clicking on an icon in a &konqueror; window, moving the mouse to another
				window while keeping the mouse button pressed, and releasing the mouse
				button (<quote>dropping</quote> the object) copies files.</para>
				<glossseealso otherterm="gloss-konqueror">&konqueror;</glossseealso>
			</glossdef>
		</glossentry>
		<glossentry id="gloss-gui">
			<glossterm><acronym>GUI</acronym></glossterm>
			<glossdef><para>Abbreviation for <emphasis>G</emphasis>raphical
				<emphasis>U</emphasis>ser <emphasis>I</emphasis>nterface. Every desktop
				environment (like &kde;) is a <acronym>GUI</acronym>. Most
				<acronym>GUI</acronym>s feature mouse support and/or windows to manage
				the programs.</para>
				<glossseealso otherterm="gloss-kde">&kde;</glossseealso>
			</glossdef>
		</glossentry>
		<glossentry id="gloss-kde">
			<glossterm>&kde;</glossterm>
			<glossdef><para>Abbreviation for <quote>K Desktop Environment</quote>, a
				leading <acronym>GUI</acronym> for UNIX-based systems. You can find more
				detailled information at <ulink
				url="http://www.kde.org">www.kde.org</ulink>.</para>
				<glossseealso otherterm="gloss-gui"><acronym>GUI</acronym></glossseealso>
			</glossdef>
		</glossentry>
		<glossentry id="gloss-gnome">
			<glossterm><acronym>GNOME</acronym></glossterm>
			<glossdef>
				<para><emphasis>GN</emphasis>U <emphasis>O</emphasis>bject
				<emphasis>M</emphasis>odel <emphasis>E</emphasis>nvironment, one of the
				leading Unix <acronym>GUI</acronym>s.</para>
				<glossseealso otherterm="gloss-gui"><acronym>GUI</acronym></glossseealso>
			</glossdef>
		</glossentry>
		<glossentry id="gloss-panel">
			<glossterm>Panel</glossterm>
			<glossdef><para>Refers to the panel (also known as
				<quote>&kicker;</quote>) which often resides at the bottom of the
				screen.</para>
				<glossseealso otherterm="gloss-kde">&kde;</glossseealso>
				<glossseealso otherterm="gloss-kicker">&kicker;</glossseealso>
			</glossdef>
		</glossentry>
		<glossentry id="gloss-ripping">
			<glossterm>ripping</glossterm>
			<glossdef><para>The process of reading audio data from a &cdrom; and
				storing it on the harddisk.</para>
			</glossdef>
		</glossentry>
	</glossdiv>
	
	<glossdiv id="kde-development">
		<title>&kde; Development</title>
		<glossentry id="gloss-qt">
			<glossterm>&Qt;</glossterm>
			<glossdef><para>The <acronym>GUI</acronym> of &kde; is built in top of
				the &Qt; toolkit, which provides many graphical elements (so-called
				<quote>Widgets</quote>) which are used to construct the desktop. You
				can find more information about &Qt; at <ulink
				url="http://www.trolltech.com">www.trolltech.com</ulink>.</para>
				<glossseealso otherterm="gloss-kde">&kde;</glossseealso>
				<glossseealso otherterm="gloss-gui"><acronym>GUI</acronym></glossseealso>
				<glossseealso otherterm="gloss-widget">Widget</glossseealso>
			</glossdef>
		</glossentry>
		<glossentry id="gloss-i18n">
			<glossterm>i18n</glossterm>
			<glossdef><para>Abbreviation for <quote>internationalization</quote>. &kde;
				supports many different languages, and several i18n techniques make it
				easy to translate the <acronym>GUI</acronym> as well as the accompanying
				documents of &kde; into all these languages. More information about the
				i18n process is available at <ulink
				url="http://i18n.kde.org">i18n.kde.org</ulink>.</para>
				<glossseealso otherterm="gloss-kde">&kde;</glossseealso>
				<glossseealso otherterm="gloss-gui"><acronym>GUI</acronym></glossseealso>
			</glossdef>
		</glossentry>
		<glossentry id="gloss-l10n">
			<glossterm>l10n</glossterm>
			<glossdef><para>Abbreviation for <quote>localization</quote>, the process
				of adapting a program to the local environment. This includes &ie; the
				currency used for monetary values or the time format.</para>
				<glossseealso otherterm="gloss-i18n">i18n</glossseealso>
			</glossdef>
		</glossentry>
		<glossentry id="gloss-widget">
			<glossterm>Widget</glossterm>
			<glossdef><para>Graphical elements like scrollbars, buttons or input
				fields which are used by &kde; to construct the <acronym>GUI</acronym>.
				</para>
				<glossseealso otherterm="gloss-kde">&kde;</glossseealso>
				<glossseealso otherterm="gloss-gui"><acronym>GUI</acronym></glossseealso>
			</glossdef>
		</glossentry>
      <glossentry id="gloss-cvs">
         <glossterm><acronym>CVS</acronym></glossterm>
         <glossdef>
            <para><emphasis>C</emphasis>oncurrent <emphasis>V</emphasis>ersion <emphasis>S</emphasis>ystem.
            The <acronym>CVS</acronym> is a very elegant way of managing file versions that lets easily work more than one
            developer on the same project. You can find a description of how to get the latest (developer) version of the
            &kde; sources via anonymous <acronym>CVS</acronym> on
            <ulink url="http://www.kde.org/anoncvs.html">http://www.kde.org/anoncvs.html</ulink>.
            More about <acronym>CVS</acronym> is available at <ulink url="http://www.cvshome.org">www.cvshome.org</ulink>.

            </para>
         </glossdef>
      </glossentry>
	</glossdiv>
	
	<glossdiv id="glossdiv-misc">
		<title>Miscellaneous</title>
		<glossentry id="gloss-rfc">
			<glossterm><acronym>RFC</acronym></glossterm>
			<glossdef><para><emphasis>R</emphasis>equest <emphasis>F</emphasis>or
				<emphasis>C</emphasis>omment. A common way to publish new protocol
				ideas or procedures for evaluation of the internet community. Though
				<acronym>RFC</acronym>'s are not mandatory, many applications try to
				adhere them, once they have been approved of by the community.</para>
			</glossdef>
		</glossentry>	
	</glossdiv>
	
	<glossdiv id="glossdiv-protocols">
		<title>Various protocols</title>
		<glossentry id="gloss-smb">
			<glossterm><acronym>SMB</acronym></glossterm>
			<glossdef><para><emphasis>S</emphasis>erver <emphasis>M</emphasis>essage
				<emphasis>B</emphasis>lock. A network protocol used in MS-Windows© 
				networks to access the filesystems of other computers.</para>
				<glossseealso otherterm="gloss-ioslave"><acronym>IO</acronym> Slave</glossseealso>
			</glossdef>
		</glossentry>
		<glossentry id="gloss-irc">
			<glossterm><acronym>IRC</acronym></glossterm>
			<glossdef><para><emphasis>I</emphasis>nternet <emphasis>R</emphasis>elay
				<emphasis>C</emphasis>hat. A protocol defined in <acronym>RFC</acronym>
				1459, which handles specification to enable real time text chat.</para>
				<glossseealso otherterm="gloss-rfc"><acronym>RFC</acronym></glossseealso>
			</glossdef>
		</glossentry>
                <glossentry id="gloss-host">
		        <glossterm>host</glossterm>
			<glossdef><para>This can either be a name from your 
                        <filename>/etc/hosts</filename> file
			(<systemitem class="systemname">mycomputer</systemitem>), 
                        an internet name (<systemitem class="systemname">www.kde.org</systemitem>) or an IP-Address (<systemitem>192.168.0.10</systemitem>).
			</para>
	                </glossdef>
	        </glossentry>
	</glossdiv>
</glossary>
