<?xml version="1.0" ?>
<!DOCTYPE book PUBLIC "-//KDE//DTD DocBook XML V4.1-Based Variant V1.0//EN" "dtd/kdex.dtd" [
  <!ENTITY kdebugdialog "<application>KDebugDialog</application>">
  <!ENTITY kappname "&kdebugdialog;">
  <!ENTITY % addindex "IGNORE">
  <!ENTITY % English "INCLUDE" > <!-- change language only here -->
  
  
]>

<book lang="&language;">
<bookinfo>
<title>The &kdebugdialog; Handbook</title>

<authorgroup>
<author>
<firstname>David</firstname>
<surname>Faure</surname>
<affiliation>
<address><email>faure@kde.org</email></address>
</affiliation>
</author>
<!-- TRANS:ROLES_OF_TRANSLATORS -->
</authorgroup>

<date>2001-02-13</date>
<releaseinfo>0.03.00</releaseinfo>

<abstract>
<para>This document describes &kdebugdialog;.</para>
</abstract>

<keywordset>
<keyword>KDE</keyword>
<keyword>KDebugdialog</keyword>
</keywordset>
</bookinfo>

<chapter id="Introduction">
<title>What is KDebugDialog</title>

<para>It is a dialog box for managing diagnostic messages at runtime.
</para>

<para>If you simply start "kdebugdialog", you will see a list of "areas",
that can be disabled or enabled. A kdDebug(area) call in the code will
show something in the debug output only if the area is enabled.
</para>

<note><para>
Note that kdWarning, kdError and kdFatal always appear, they are NOT
controlled by this setting.
</para></note>

<para>If you start "kdebugdialog --fullmode", you can define separately for
every severity level what should be done with the diagnostic messages
of that level, and this for each debug area.
</para>

<para>
In the full mode, the following settings are available:
<itemizedlist>
<listitem>
<para>Output: In this Combobox, you can choose where the messages
should be output. The choices are: "File", "Message Box",
"Shell" (meaning stderr) and "syslog". Please do not direct
fatal messages to syslog unless you are the system administrator
yourself. The default is "Message Box".</para>
</listitem>
<listitem>
<para>File: This is only meaningful when you have chosen "File" as
the output and provides the name of that file (which is
interpreted relatively to the current directory). The default is
kdebug.dbg.</para>
</listitem>
<listitem>
<para>Area: The areas which should only be output. Every message
that is not mentioned here will simply not be output (unless
this field remains empty which is the default and means that all
messages should be output). Your can enter several areas
separated by commas here, and you can also use area ranges with
the syntax start-end. Thus a valid entry could be:
117,214-289,356-359,221. Please do not use whitespace.</para>
</listitem>
</itemizedlist>
</para>

<para>Apart from this, you can also tick the checkbox "Abort on fatal
errors". In this case, if a diagnostic message with the severity
level "KDEBUG_FATAL" is output, the application aborts with
a SIGABRT after outputting the message.
</para>

<para>When you close the dialog with OK, your entries apply immediately
and saved in kdebugrc. When you press cancel, your entries are 
discarded and the old ones are restored.
</para>

<para>Credits to Kalle Dalheimer for the original version of kdebugdialog
</para>

</chapter>

&documentation.index; 
</book>
<!--
Local Variables:
mode: sgml
sgml-omittag: nil
sgml-general-insert-case: lower
sgml-shorttag: t
End:
-->


