<?xml version="1.0" ?>
<!DOCTYPE book PUBLIC "-//KDE//DTD DocBook XML V4.1-Based Variant V1.0//EN" "dtd/kdex.dtd" [
  <!ENTITY kappname "&ksysguard;">
  <!ENTITY % addindex "IGNORE">
  <!ENTITY % English "INCLUDE" > <!-- change language only here -->
  
  
]>

<book lang="&language;">
<bookinfo>
<title>The &ksysguard; Handbook</title>

<authorgroup>
<author>
<firstname>Chris</firstname>
<surname>Schlaeger</surname>
<affiliation>
<address><email>cs@kde.org</email></address>
</affiliation>
</author>

<othercredit role="developer">
<firstname>Chris</firstname>
<surname>Schlaeger</surname>
<affiliation>
<address><email>cs@kde.org</email></address>
</affiliation>
<contrib>Developer</contrib>
</othercredit>

<othercredit role="reviewer">
<firstname>Lauri</firstname>
<surname>Watts</surname>
<affiliation>
<address><email>vampyr@atconnex.net</email></address></affiliation>
<contrib>Reviewer</contrib>
</othercredit>
<!-- TRANS:ROLES_OF_TRANSLATORS -->

</authorgroup>

<copyright>
<year>2000</year>
<holder>Chris Schlaeger</holder>
</copyright>

<legalnotice>&FDLNotice;</legalnotice>

<date>2000-12-14</date>
<releaseinfo>1.00.00</releaseinfo>

<abstract><para>&ksysguard; is a network enabled task manager and system monitor
application, with the additional functionality of
<application>top</application>.</para></abstract> 

<keywordset>
<keyword>KDE</keyword>
<keyword>KSysGuard</keyword>
<keyword>process monitor</keyword>
<keyword>top</keyword>
<keyword>ps</keyword>
</keywordset>
</bookinfo>

<chapter id="introduction">
<title>Introduction</title>

<para>&ksysguard; is the KDE Task Manager and Performance Monitor. It features a
client server architecture that allows monitoring of local as well as remote
hosts. The graphical front end uses so called sensors to retrieve the
information it displays. A sensor can return simple values or more complex
information like tables. For each type of information one or more displays are
provided. Displays are organized in work sheets that can be saved and loaded
independantly from each other. So &ksysguard; is not only a simple task manager
but also a very powerful tool to control large server farms.</para>

</chapter>


<chapter id="usingtheksysguard">
<title>Using &ksysguard;</title>

<sect1 id="gettingstarted">
<title>Getting started</title>

<para>&ksysguard; can be started from the start menu, using the entry <guimenuitem>KDE System
Guard</guimenuitem> in the <guimenu>Systems</guimenu> menu. Alternatively you
can start it by typing <command>ksysguard</command> in a terminal.</para>

<para>The &ksysguard; main window consists of a menu bar, an optional tool bar and
status bar, the sensor browser and the work space. When first started you see
your local machine listed as <guilabel>localhost</guilabel> in the sensor
browser and 2 pages in the work space area. This is the default setup.</para>

<para>This default setup is sufficient enough for an unexperienced user to do
some system management. An experienced user or even a system administrator of a
large computer lab has different needs. To address a wide range of users, &ksysguard;
is higly flexible.</para>
</sect1>

<sect1 id="the-sensor-browser">
<title>The Sensor Browser</title>

<para>The sensor browser displays the registered hosts and their sensors in a
tree form. Click on the tree handles to open or close a branch. Each sensor
monitors a certain system value.</para>

<sect2 id="connectingtootherhosts">
<title>Connecting to other hosts</title>

<para>To connect to a new host user <guimenuitem>Connect Hosts</guimenuitem>
from the <guimenu>File</guimenu> menu. A dialog box will appear and allows you
enter the name of the host you want to connect to. Below the name you can choose
the connection method. The default is <application>ssh</application>, the secure
shell. Alternatively the <application>rsh</application>, the remote shell, can
be used. Click <guibutton>OK</guibutton> to establish the connection. Shortly
afterwords the new host will appear in the sensor browser and you can browser
the list of sensors.</para>

<para>To establish a connection a program called
<application>ksysguardd</application> is started on the new host. This program
must be installed on the machine and needs to be included in your
<envar>PATH</envar>. Unfortunately the ssh does not source your
<filename>.profile</filename> file, so your regular <envar>PATH</envar> setting
will not be available. Instead it uses a default <envar>PATH</envar> like
<parameter>/bin:/usr/bin</parameter>. Since KDE is very likely not installed in
these directories you need to create or update a file in your home
directory. The file is called <filename>environment</filename> and needs to be
in a hidden directory called <filename>.ssh</filename>. See the manual page for
<application>ssh</application> for more details. The file needs to contain a
line like the following:</para>

<screen>
<userinput>PATH=/bin:/usr/bin:/opt/kde2/bin</userinput>
</screen>

<para>assuming that <application>ksysguardd</application> can be found under
<filename>/opt/kde2/bin/ksysguardd</filename>.</para>

<note><para>For experts: <application>ksysguardd</application> is a very small
program that is only linked against the libc. So it can also be used on machines
that do not have a full blown KDE installed such as servers. If you choose the
custom command option in the host connector you need to specify the complete
command to start <application>ksysguardd</application>.</para></note>

<tip><para>When using <application>ssh</application> you should make sure that
you have your identity.pub installed on the remote machine and the host key of
the remote machine is already registered on your machine. The easiest way to
check this is to type <command>ssh <option>remotehost
ksysguardd</option></command> in a shell. If you are greeted by
<application>ksysguardd</application> you can type <userinput>quit</userinput>
and everyting is in order.</para></tip>
</sect2>

<sect2 id="disconnecting-hosts">
<title>Disconnecting hosts</title>

<para>To disconnect from a host, select the hosts in the sensor browser and
choose <guimenuitem>Disconnect Host</guimenuitem> from the
<guimenu>File</guimenu> menu. In case you still have sensors in use, the display
frames will be greyed and the displays wont update any longer.</para>
</sect2>
</sect1>

<sect1 id="the-workspace">
<title>The Work Space</title>

<para>The work space is organized as work sheets. Select
<guimenuitem>New</guimenuitem> from the <guimenu>File</guimenu> menu to create a
new work sheet. A dialog will appear where you can set the name and the
dimension of the work sheet. To remove a work sheet again, select
<guimenuitem>Close</guimenuitem> from the <guimenu>File</guimenu> menu. Any
modifications will be saved to the work sheet file. In case a work sheet has
never been saved you are asked for a file name. Work sheets consist of cells
organized as a grid.</para>

<para>Each cell can be filled with a display for one or more sensors. You can
fill a cell by dragging a sensor from the sensor browser and dropping it over
the cell. In case there is more than one type of display available for that type
of sensor, a popup menu will appear. You can then select which display you prefer
to use. Certain types of displays can display more than one sensor. Add more
sensors to a displays by dragging them over from the sensor browser and dropping
them over the already existing display.</para>

<para>Displays can be configured by clicking with the right mouse button on
them. A popup menu appear where you can select whether you want to change the
properties of that display or remove it from the work sheet.</para>

<sect2 id="signal-plotter">
<title>Signal Plotter</title>

<para>The signal plotter prints samples of one or more sensors over time. In
case several sensors are displays the values are piled in different colors. If
the display is large enough a grid will be displayed to show the range of the
plotted samples. If you set the minimum and maximum value in the properties
dialog to 0 the plotter will work in automatic range mode. Otherwise the
specified values for the range are used.</para>
</sect2>

<sect2 id="multimeter">
<title>Multimeter</title>

<para>The multimeter displays the sensor values as a digital meter. In the
properties dialog you can specify minimum and maximum values. In case the range
is execeeded the display is colored in red and a warning box appears.</para>
</sect2>

<sect2 id="process-controller">
<title>Process Controller</title>

<para>The Process Controller gives you a list of processes on your
system. The list can be sorted by each column. Just press the left
mouse button over the head of the column. </para>

<para>The list shows the following information about each process. Please note
that not all properties are available on every operating system.</para>

<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>PID</guilabel></term>
<listitem><para>The Process <abbrev>ID</abbrev>.  A unique number for each
process.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Name</guilabel></term>
<listitem><para>The name of the executable that started the
process.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>User ID</guilabel></term>
<listitem><para>The login name of the user that started the
process.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>CPU</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>The processor load of the process in percent.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Time</guilabel></term>
<listitem><para>The total computation time of the process so
far.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Nice</guilabel></term>
<listitem><para>The scheduling priority. </para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Status</guilabel></term>
<listitem><para>The process status. </para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Memory</guilabel></term>
<listitem><para>The total amount of memory (in kBytes) the process uses. This
includes shared memory.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Resident</guilabel></term>
<listitem><para>The amount of physical memory (in kBytes) the process
uses.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Shared</guilabel></term>
<listitem><para>The amount of memory (in kBytes) the process shares with other
processes.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>

<para>Underneath the table you find four buttons which will be described now
from left to right.</para>

<sect3 id="thetreeview">
<title>The <guibutton>Tree</guibutton> View</title>

<para>The tree view has been designed to show the relationships between the
running processes. A process that is started by another process is called the
child of that process. A tree is an elegant way to show this parent-child
relationship. The <emphasis>init</emphasis> process is the ancester of all
processes.</para>

<para>If you are not interested in the children of a particular process you can
click on the little box to the left of the parent and the subtree will
collapse. Another click on that box will unfold the subtree again.</para>

</sect3>

<sect3 id="theprocessfilter">
<title>The Process Filter </title>

<para>The Process Filter can be used to reduce the number of processes displayed
in the table. You can filter out processes you are not interested in. Currently
you can display all processes, system processes only, user processes only or
your processes only.</para>

</sect3>

<sect3 id="thepausebutton">
<title>The <guibutton>Pause</guibutton> Button</title>

<para>Select the <guibutton>pause</guibutton> button if you want to halt the
automatic update of the process list.</para>
</sect3>

<sect3 id="therefreshbutton">
<title>The <guibutton>Refresh</guibutton> Button </title>

<para>This button can be used to force an immediate update of the process
list.</para>

</sect3>

<sect3 id="thekillbutton">
<title>The <guibutton>Kill</guibutton> Button </title>

<para>If you have selected one or more processes you can press the kill button
to kill them. A so called SIGKIL is sent to the processes which causes them to
terminate immediately. If these applications still have unsaved data this data
will be lost. So use this button with care.</para>

</sect3>
</sect2>
</sect1>
</chapter>

<chapter id="credits-and-licenses">
<title>Credits and Licenses</title>

<para>&ksysguard; is currently developed and maintained by Chris Schl&auml;ger
<email>cs@kde.org</email>. &ksysguard; is a rewrite of
<application>KTop</application>, the KDE 1.x task manager. Several other people
have worked on <application>KTop</application>:</para>

<itemizedlist>
<listitem><para> A. Sanda <email>alex@darkstar.ping.at</email></para></listitem>
<listitem><para> Ralf Mueller <email>ralf@bj-ig.de</email></para></listitem>
<listitem><para> Bernd Johannes Wuebben
<email>wuebben@math.cornell.edu</email></para></listitem>
<listitem><para> Nicolas Leclercq
<email>nicknet@planete.net</email></para></listitem>
</itemizedlist>

<para>The porting to other platforms than Linux was done by:</para>

<itemizedlist>
<listitem><para> FreeBSD: Hans Petter Bieker
&lt;zerium@traad.lavvu.no&gt;</para></listitem>
</itemizedlist>

&underFDL;
&underGPL;

</chapter>

<appendix id="installation">
<title>Installation</title>

<sect1 id="howtoobtainksysguard">
<title>How to obtain &ksysguard;</title>

<para>&ksysguard; is part of the KDE project <ulink
url="http://www.kde.org">http://www.kde.org</ulink>.  &ksysguard; can be found on
<ulink url="ftp://ftp.kde.org/pub/kde/">ftp://ftp.kde.org/pub/kde/</ulink>, the
main ftp site of the KDE project.</para>

</sect1>

<sect1 id="requirements">
<title>Requirements</title>

<para>In order to successfully compile &ksysguard;, you need the KDE 2.0 and Qt
2.2.x.  All required libraries as well as &ksysguard; itself can be found on
<ulink
url="ftp://ftp.kde.org/pub/kde/">ftp://ftp.kde.org/pub/kde/</ulink>. </para>

<para>The graphical front-end is available on any platform that KDE runs
on. The back-end is at the moment available on the following flavors of
UNIX:</para>

<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term>Linux 2.x</term>
<listitem><para> For &ksysguard; to work it is necessary to compile the Linux-Kernel
with the <filename>/proc</filename> Filesystem enabled. This is the default
setting and most Linux-Distribution have it already.</para> </listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term>FreeBSD</term>
<listitem><para>The &ksysguard; program needs to be owned by the kmem group and needs
to have the setgid bit set.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>

<para>Support for other platforms is in preparation. Your help is greatly
appreciated.</para>

</sect1>

<sect1 id="compilationandinstallation">
<title>Compilation and Installation</title>

<para>In order to compile and install &ksysguard; on your system, type the following
in the base directory of the kdeutils distribution:</para>
<screen>
<prompt>%</prompt> <command>./configure</command>
<prompt>%</prompt> <command>make</command>
<prompt>%</prompt> <command>make <option>install</option></command>
</screen>

<para>Should you run into problems please report them to the KDE mailing
lists.</para>

</sect1>

</appendix>



</book>
<!--
Local Variables:
mode: sgml
sgml-omittag: nil
sgml-shorttag: t
End:
-->

