'\" t
.TH QAsyncIO 3qt "29 October 2001" "Trolltech AS" \" -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright 1992-2001 Trolltech AS.  All rights reserved.  See the
.\" license file included in the distribution for a complete license
.\" statement.
.\"
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
QAsyncIO \- Encapsulates I/O asynchronicity
.br
.PP
\fC#include <qasyncio.h>\fR
.PP
Inherited by QDataSink and QDataSource.
.PP
.SS "Public Members"
.in +1c
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual \fB~QAsyncIO\fR () "
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "void \fBconnect\fR ( QObject *, const char * member ) "
.br
.in -1c
.SS "Protected Members"
.in +1c
.ti -1c
.BI "void \fBready\fR () "
.br
.in -1c
.SH DESCRIPTION
Encapsulates I/O asynchronicity.
.PP
The Qt classes for asynchronous input/output provide a simple mechanism to allow large files or slow data sources to be processed without using large amounts of memory, or blocking the user interface.
.PP
This facility is used in Qt to drive animated images. See QImageConsumer.
.SH MEMBER FUNCTION DOCUMENTATION
.SH "QAsyncIO::~QAsyncIO () \fC[virtual]\fR"
Destructs the async IO object.
.SH "void QAsyncIO::connect ( QObject * obj, const char * member )"
Ensures only one object can respond to changes in readiness.
.SH "void QAsyncIO::ready () \fC[protected]\fR"
Derived classes should call this when they change from being
unready to ready.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/qasyncio.html
.BR http://www.trolltech.com/faq/tech.html
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1992-2001 Trolltech AS, http://www.trolltech.com.  See the
license file included in the distribution for a complete license
statement.
.SH AUTHOR
Generated automatically from the source code.
.SH BUGS
If you find a bug in Qt, please report it as described in
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/bughowto.html .
Good bug reports make our job much simpler. Thank you.
.P
In case of content or formattting problems with this manual page, please
report them to
.BR qt-bugs@trolltech.com .
Please include the name of the manual page (qasyncio.3qt) and the Qt
version (2.3.2).
