'\" t
.TH QBitVal 3qt "29 October 2001" "Trolltech AS" \" -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright 1992-2001 Trolltech AS.  All rights reserved.  See the
.\" license file included in the distribution for a complete license
.\" statement.
.\"
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
QBitVal \- Internal class, used with
.br
.PP
\fC#include <qbitarray.h>\fR
.PP
.SS "Public Members"
.in +1c
.ti -1c
.BI "\fBQBitVal\fR ( QBitArray * " "a" ", uint i ) "
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "operator \fBint\fR ()"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "QBitVal& \fBoperator=\fR ( const QBitVal & v ) "
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "QBitVal& \fBoperator=\fR ( bool v ) "
.br
.in -1c
.SH DESCRIPTION
The QBitVal class is an internal class, used with QBitArray.
.PP
The QBitVal is required by the indexing [] operator on bit arrays. It is probably a bad idea to use it in any other context.
.SH MEMBER FUNCTION DOCUMENTATION
.SH "QBitVal::QBitVal ( QBitArray * a, uint i )"
Constructs a reference to an element in a QBitArray. This is what QBitArray::operator[] constructs its return value with.
.SH "QBitVal::operator int ()"
Returns the value referenced by the QBitVal.
.SH "QBitVal& QBitVal::operator= ( bool v )"
Sets the value referenced by the QBitVal.
.SH "QBitVal& QBitVal::operator= ( const QBitVal & v )"
Sets the value referenced by the QBitVal to that referenced by another
QBitVal.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/qbitval.html
.BR http://www.trolltech.com/faq/tech.html
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1992-2001 Trolltech AS, http://www.trolltech.com.  See the
license file included in the distribution for a complete license
statement.
.SH AUTHOR
Generated automatically from the source code.
.SH BUGS
If you find a bug in Qt, please report it as described in
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/bughowto.html .
Good bug reports make our job much simpler. Thank you.
.P
In case of content or formattting problems with this manual page, please
report them to
.BR qt-bugs@trolltech.com .
Please include the name of the manual page (qbitval.3qt) and the Qt
version (2.3.2).
