'\" t
.TH QCanvasText 3qt "29 October 2001" "Trolltech AS" \" -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright 1992-2001 Trolltech AS.  All rights reserved.  See the
.\" license file included in the distribution for a complete license
.\" statement.
.\"
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
QCanvasText \- A text object on a
.br
.PP
\fC#include <qcanvas.h>\fR
.PP
Inherits QCanvasItem.
.PP
.SS "Public Members"
.in +1c
.ti -1c
.BI "\fBQCanvasText\fR ( QCanvas * canvas ) "
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "\fBQCanvasText\fR ( const QString &, QCanvas * canvas ) "
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "\fBQCanvasText\fR ( const QString &, QFont, QCanvas * canvas ) "
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual \fB~QCanvasText\fR () "
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "void \fBsetText\fR ( const QString & ) "
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "void \fBsetFont\fR ( const QFont & ) "
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "void \fBsetColor\fR ( const QColor & ) "
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "QString \fBtext\fR () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "QFont \fBfont\fR () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "QColor \fBcolor\fR () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "int \fBtextFlags\fR () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "void \fBsetTextFlags\fR ( int ) "
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual QRect \fBboundingRect\fR () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual int \fBrtti\fR () const"
.br
.in -1c
.SS "Protected Members"
.in +1c
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual void \fBdraw\fR ( QPainter & ) "
.br
.in -1c
.SH DESCRIPTION
A text object on a QCanvas.
.PP
A QCanvasText has text, a font, color, and position.
.SH MEMBER FUNCTION DOCUMENTATION
.SH "QCanvasText::QCanvasText ( QCanvas * canvas )"
Constructs a QCanvasText with the text "<text>", on \fIcanvas.\fR
.SH "QCanvasText::QCanvasText ( const QString & t, QCanvas * canvas )"
Constructs a QCanvasText with the text \fIt,\fR on \fIcanvas.\fR
.PP
The text should not contain newlines.
.SH "QCanvasText::QCanvasText ( const QString & t, QFont f, QCanvas * canvas )"
Constructs a QCanvasText with the text \fIt\fR and font \fIf,\fR on \fIcanvas.\fR
.PP
The text should not contain newlines.
.SH "QCanvasText::~QCanvasText () \fC[virtual]\fR"
Destruct the sprite.
.SH "QRect QCanvasText::boundingRect () const \fC[virtual]\fR"
Returns the bounding rectangle of the text.
.PP
Reimplemented from QCanvasItem.
.SH "bool QCanvasText::collidesWith ( const QCanvasItem * i ) const \fC[virtual]\fR"
Reimplemented for internal reasons; the API is not affected.
.PP
Reimplemented from QCanvasItem.
.SH "QColor QCanvasText::color () const"
Returns the color of the text.
.PP
See also setColor().
.SH "void QCanvasText::draw ( QPainter & painter ) \fC[virtual protected]\fR"
Draws the text.
.SH "QFont QCanvasText::font () const"
Returns the font in which the text is drawn.
.PP
See also setFont().
.SH "void QCanvasText::moveBy ( double dx, double dy ) \fC[virtual]\fR"
Reimplemented for internal reasons; the API is not affected.
.PP
Reimplemented from QCanvasItem.
.SH "int QCanvasText::rtti () const \fC[virtual]\fR"
Returns 3.
.PP
See also QCanvasItem::rtti().
.SH "void QCanvasText::setColor ( const QColor & c )"
Sets the color of the text.
.PP
See also color() and setFont().
.SH "void QCanvasText::setFont ( const QFont & f )"
Sets the font in which the text is drawn.
.PP
See also font().
.SH "void QCanvasText::setText ( const QString & t )"
Sets the text to be displayed. The text may contain newlines.
.PP
See also text(), setFont() and setColor().
.SH "void QCanvasText::setTextFlags ( int f )"
Sets the alignment flags. These are a bitwise OR or \fIsome\fR of the flags available to QPainter::drawText() - see Qt::AlignmentFlags.
.PP
The DontClip and WordBreak flags are not supported.
.SH "QString QCanvasText::text () const"
Returns the text to be displayed.
.PP
See also setText().
.SH "int QCanvasText::textFlags () const"
Returns the currently set alignment flags.
.PP
See also  setTextFlags() and Qt::AlignmentFlags.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/qcanvastext.html
.BR http://www.trolltech.com/faq/tech.html
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1992-2001 Trolltech AS, http://www.trolltech.com.  See the
license file included in the distribution for a complete license
statement.
.SH AUTHOR
Generated automatically from the source code.
.SH BUGS
If you find a bug in Qt, please report it as described in
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/bughowto.html .
Good bug reports make our job much simpler. Thank you.
.P
In case of content or formattting problems with this manual page, please
report them to
.BR qt-bugs@trolltech.com .
Please include the name of the manual page (qcanvastext.3qt) and the Qt
version (2.3.2).
