'\" t
.TH QCanvasPolygon 3qt "29 October 2001" "Trolltech AS" \" -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright 1992-2001 Trolltech AS.  All rights reserved.  See the
.\" license file included in the distribution for a complete license
.\" statement.
.\"
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
QCanvasPolygon \- A polygon with a movable reference point
.br
.PP
\fC#include <qcanvas.h>\fR
.PP
Inherits QCanvasPolygonalItem.
.PP
.SS "Public Members"
.in +1c
.ti -1c
.BI "\fBQCanvasPolygon\fR ( QCanvas * canvas ) "
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "\fB~QCanvasPolygon\fR () "
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "void \fBsetPoints\fR ( QPointArray ) "
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "QPointArray \fBpoints\fR () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual QPointArray \fBareaPoints\fR () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual int \fBrtti\fR () const"
.br
.in -1c
.SS "Protected Members"
.in +1c
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual void \fBdrawShape\fR ( QPainter & ) "
.br
.in -1c
.SH DESCRIPTION
A polygon with a movable reference point.
.PP
Paints a polygon in a QBrush.
.SH MEMBER FUNCTION DOCUMENTATION
.SH "QCanvasPolygon::QCanvasPolygon ( QCanvas * canvas )"
Constructs a pointless polygon on \fIcanvas.\fR You should call setPoints() before using it further.
.SH "QCanvasPolygon::~QCanvasPolygon ()"
Destructs the polygon.
.SH "QPointArray QCanvasPolygon::areaPoints () const \fC[virtual]\fR"
Returns the vertices of the polygon translated by the x(), y() position.
.PP
See also setPoints() and points().
.PP
Reimplemented from QCanvasPolygonalItem.
.SH "void QCanvasPolygon::drawShape ( QPainter & p ) \fC[virtual protected]\fR"
Note that QCanvasPolygon does not support an outline (pen is always NoPen).
.PP
Reimplemented from QCanvasPolygonalItem.
.SH "void QCanvasPolygon::moveBy ( double dx, double dy ) \fC[virtual]\fR"
Reimplemented for internal reasons; the API is not affected.
.PP
Reimplemented from QCanvasItem.
.SH "QPointArray QCanvasPolygon::points () const"
Returns the vertices of the polygon, not translated by the position.
.PP
See also setPoints() and areaPoints().
.SH "int QCanvasPolygon::rtti () const \fC[virtual]\fR"
Returns 4.
.PP
See also QCanvasItem::rtti().
.PP
Reimplemented from QCanvasItem.
.SH "void QCanvasPolygon::setPoints ( QPointArray pa )"
Sets the points of the polygon to be \fIpa,\fR which will be translated
by x(), y() as the polygon is moved.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/qcanvaspolygon.html
.BR http://www.trolltech.com/faq/tech.html
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1992-2001 Trolltech AS, http://www.trolltech.com.  See the
license file included in the distribution for a complete license
statement.
.SH AUTHOR
Generated automatically from the source code.
.SH BUGS
If you find a bug in Qt, please report it as described in
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/bughowto.html .
Good bug reports make our job much simpler. Thank you.
.P
In case of content or formattting problems with this manual page, please
report them to
.BR qt-bugs@trolltech.com .
Please include the name of the manual page (qcanvaspolygon.3qt) and the Qt
version (2.3.2).
