'\" t
.TH QCanvasLine 3qt "29 October 2001" "Trolltech AS" \" -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright 1992-2001 Trolltech AS.  All rights reserved.  See the
.\" license file included in the distribution for a complete license
.\" statement.
.\"
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
QCanvasLine \- A lines on a canvas
.br
.PP
\fC#include <qcanvas.h>\fR
.PP
Inherits QCanvasPolygonalItem.
.PP
.SS "Public Members"
.in +1c
.ti -1c
.BI "\fBQCanvasLine\fR ( QCanvas * canvas ) "
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "\fB~QCanvasLine\fR () "
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "void \fBsetPoints\fR ( int " "x1" ", int " "y1" ", int " "x2" ", int y2 ) "
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "QPoint \fBstartPoint\fR () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "QPoint \fBendPoint\fR () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual int \fBrtti\fR () const"
.br
.in -1c
.SH DESCRIPTION
A lines on a canvas.
.PP
Currently, only width==1 lines are supported.
.SH MEMBER FUNCTION DOCUMENTATION
.SH "QCanvasLine::QCanvasLine ( QCanvas * canvas )"
Constructs a line from (0,0) to (0,0) on \fIcanvas.\fR
.PP
See also setPoints().
.SH "QCanvasLine::~QCanvasLine ()"
Destroys the line, removing it from its canvas.
.SH "QPointArray QCanvasLine::areaPoints () const \fC[virtual protected]\fR"
Reimplemented for internal reasons; the API is not affected.
.PP
Note that the area defined by the line is somewhat thicker than the line that is actually drawn.
.PP
Reimplemented from QCanvasPolygonalItem.
.SH "void QCanvasLine::drawShape ( QPainter & p ) \fC[virtual protected]\fR"
Reimplemented for internal reasons; the API is not affected.
.PP
Reimplemented from QCanvasPolygonalItem.
.SH "QPoint QCanvasLine::endPoint () const"
Returns the end of the line.
.PP
See also setPoints() and startPoint().
.SH "int QCanvasLine::rtti () const \fC[virtual]\fR"
Returns 7.
.PP
See also QCanvasItem::rtti().
.PP
Reimplemented from QCanvasItem.
.SH "void QCanvasLine::setPen ( QPen p ) \fC[virtual]\fR"
Reimplemented for internal reasons; the API is not affected.
.PP
Reimplemented from QCanvasPolygonalItem.
.SH "void QCanvasLine::setPoints ( int xa, int ya, int xb, int yb )"
Sets the ends of the line to (\fIxa, ya)\fR and (\fIxb, yb).\fR
.SH "QPoint QCanvasLine::startPoint () const"
Returns the start of the line.
.PP
See also  setPoints() and endPoint().
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/qcanvasline.html
.BR http://www.trolltech.com/faq/tech.html
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1992-2001 Trolltech AS, http://www.trolltech.com.  See the
license file included in the distribution for a complete license
statement.
.SH AUTHOR
Generated automatically from the source code.
.SH BUGS
If you find a bug in Qt, please report it as described in
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/bughowto.html .
Good bug reports make our job much simpler. Thank you.
.P
In case of content or formattting problems with this manual page, please
report them to
.BR qt-bugs@trolltech.com .
Please include the name of the manual page (qcanvasline.3qt) and the Qt
version (2.3.2).
