'\" t
.TH QCanvasRectangle 3qt "29 October 2001" "Trolltech AS" \" -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright 1992-2001 Trolltech AS.  All rights reserved.  See the
.\" license file included in the distribution for a complete license
.\" statement.
.\"
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
QCanvasRectangle \- A rectangle with a movable top-left point
.br
.PP
\fC#include <qcanvas.h>\fR
.PP
Inherits QCanvasPolygonalItem.
.PP
.SS "Public Members"
.in +1c
.ti -1c
.BI "\fBQCanvasRectangle\fR ( QCanvas * canvas ) "
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "\fBQCanvasRectangle\fR ( const QRect &, QCanvas * canvas ) "
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "\fBQCanvasRectangle\fR ( int " "x" ", int " "y" ", int " "width" ", int " "height" ", QCanvas * canvas ) "
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "\fB~QCanvasRectangle\fR () "
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "int \fBwidth\fR () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "int \fBheight\fR () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "void \fBsetSize\fR ( int " "w" ", int h ) "
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "QSize \fBsize\fR () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "QRect \fBrect\fR () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual int \fBrtti\fR () const"
.br
.in -1c
.SS "Protected Members"
.in +1c
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual void \fBdrawShape\fR ( QPainter & ) "
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "QPointArray \fBchunks\fR () const"
.br
.in -1c
.SH DESCRIPTION
A rectangle with a movable top-left point.
.PP
Paints a rectangle in a QBrush and QPen.
.SH MEMBER FUNCTION DOCUMENTATION
.SH "QCanvasRectangle::QCanvasRectangle ( QCanvas * canvas )"
Constructs a rectangle (0,0,32,32) on \fIcanvas.\fR
.SH "QCanvasRectangle::QCanvasRectangle ( const QRect & r, QCanvas * canvas )"
Constructs a rectangle positioned and sized by \fIr\fR on \fIcanvas.\fR
.SH "QCanvasRectangle::QCanvasRectangle ( int x, int y, int width, int height, QCanvas * canvas )"
Constructs a rectangle with position \fIx, y\fR and size \fIwidth\fR by \fIheight,\fR on \fIcanvas.\fR
.SH "QCanvasRectangle::~QCanvasRectangle ()"
Destructs the rectangle.
.SH "QPointArray QCanvasRectangle::areaPoints () const \fC[virtual]\fR"
Reimplemented for internal reasons; the API is not affected.
.PP
Reimplemented from QCanvasPolygonalItem.
.SH "bool QCanvasRectangle::collidesWith ( const QCanvasItem * i ) const \fC[virtual]\fR"
Reimplemented for internal reasons; the API is not affected.
.PP
Reimplemented from QCanvasItem.
.SH "void QCanvasRectangle::drawShape ( QPainter & p ) \fC[virtual protected]\fR"
Draws the rectangle on \fIp.\fR
.PP
Reimplemented from QCanvasPolygonalItem.
.SH "int QCanvasRectangle::height () const"
Returns the height of the rectangle.
.SH "QRect QCanvasRectangle::rect () const"
Returns the integer-converted x(), y() position and size() of the rectangle as a QRect.
.SH "int QCanvasRectangle::rtti () const \fC[virtual]\fR"
Returns 5.
.PP
See also QCanvasItem::rtti().
.PP
Reimplemented from QCanvasItem.
.SH "void QCanvasRectangle::setSize ( int width, int height )"
Sets the \fIwidth\fR and \fIheight\fR of the rectangle.
.SH "QSize QCanvasRectangle::size () const"
Returns the width() and height() of the rectangle.
.PP
See also rect() and setSize().
.SH "int QCanvasRectangle::width () const"
Returns the width of the rectangle.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/qcanvasrectangle.html
.BR http://www.trolltech.com/faq/tech.html
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1992-2001 Trolltech AS, http://www.trolltech.com.  See the
license file included in the distribution for a complete license
statement.
.SH AUTHOR
Generated automatically from the source code.
.SH BUGS
If you find a bug in Qt, please report it as described in
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/bughowto.html .
Good bug reports make our job much simpler. Thank you.
.P
In case of content or formattting problems with this manual page, please
report them to
.BR qt-bugs@trolltech.com .
Please include the name of the manual page (qcanvasrectangle.3qt) and the Qt
version (2.3.2).
