'\" t
.TH QCDEStyle 3qt "29 October 2001" "Trolltech AS" \" -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright 1992-2001 Trolltech AS.  All rights reserved.  See the
.\" license file included in the distribution for a complete license
.\" statement.
.\"
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
QCDEStyle \- CDE Look and Feel
.br
.PP
\fC#include <qcdestyle.h>\fR
.PP
Inherits QMotifStyle.
.PP
.SS "Public Members"
.in +1c
.ti -1c
.BI "\fBQCDEStyle\fR ( bool " "useHighlightCols" " = FALSE ) "
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual \fB~QCDEStyle\fR () "
.br
.in -1c
.SH DESCRIPTION
CDE Look and Feel
.PP
This style provides a slightly improved Motif look similar to some versions of the Common Desktop Environment (CDE). The main difference are thinner frames and more modern radio buttons and check boxes. Together with a dark background and a bright text/foreground color, the style looks quite attractive (at least for Motif fans).
.SH MEMBER FUNCTION DOCUMENTATION
.SH "QCDEStyle::QCDEStyle ( bool useHighlightCols = FALSE )"
Constructs a QCDEStyle
.PP
If useHighlightCols is FALSE (the default value), then the style will polish the application's color palette to emulate the Motif way of highlighting, which is a simple inversion between the base and the text color.
.SH "QCDEStyle::~QCDEStyle () \fC[virtual]\fR"
Destructs the style.
.SH "int QCDEStyle::defaultFrameWidth () const \fC[virtual]\fR"
Reimplemented for internal reasons; the API is not affected.
.PP
Reimplemented from QStyle.
.SH "void QCDEStyle::drawArrow ( QPainter * p, ArrowType type, bool down, int x, int y, int w, int h, const QColorGroup & g, bool enabled, const QBrush * = 0 )"
Reimplemented for internal reasons; the API is not affected.
.SH "void QCDEStyle::drawExclusiveIndicator ( QPainter * p, int x, int y, int w, int h, const QColorGroup & g, bool on, bool down = FALSE, bool = TRUE ) \fC[virtual]\fR"
Reimplemented for internal reasons; the API is not affected.
.PP
Reimplemented from QStyle.
.SH "void QCDEStyle::drawIndicator ( QPainter * p, int x, int y, int w, int h, const QColorGroup & g, int s, bool down = FALSE, bool = TRUE ) \fC[virtual]\fR"
Reimplemented for internal reasons; the API is not affected.
.PP
Reimplemented from QStyle.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/qcdestyle.html
.BR http://www.trolltech.com/faq/tech.html
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1992-2001 Trolltech AS, http://www.trolltech.com.  See the
license file included in the distribution for a complete license
statement.
.SH AUTHOR
Generated automatically from the source code.
.SH BUGS
If you find a bug in Qt, please report it as described in
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/bughowto.html .
Good bug reports make our job much simpler. Thank you.
.P
In case of content or formattting problems with this manual page, please
report them to
.BR qt-bugs@trolltech.com .
Please include the name of the manual page (qcdestyle.3qt) and the Qt
version (2.3.2).
