'\" t
.TH QChildEvent 3qt "29 October 2001" "Trolltech AS" \" -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright 1992-2001 Trolltech AS.  All rights reserved.  See the
.\" license file included in the distribution for a complete license
.\" statement.
.\"
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
QChildEvent \- Event parameters for child object events
.br
.PP
\fC#include <qevent.h>\fR
.PP
Inherits QEvent.
.PP
.SS "Public Members"
.in +1c
.ti -1c
.BI "\fBQChildEvent\fR ( Type " "type" ", QObject * child ) "
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "QObject* \fBchild\fR () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "bool \fBinserted\fR () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "bool \fBremoved\fR () const"
.br
.in -1c
.SH DESCRIPTION
The QChildEvent class contains event parameters for child object events.
.PP
Child events are sent to objects when children are inserted or removed.
.PP
A \fCChildRemoved\fR event is sent immediately, but a \fCChildInserted\fR event is \fIposted\fR (with QApplication::postEvent())
.PP
Note that if a child is removed immediately after it is inserted, the \fCChildInserted\fR event may be suppressed, but the \fCChildRemoved\fR event will always be sent. In this case there will be a \fCChildRemoved\fR event without a corresponding \fCChildInserted\fR event.
.PP
The handler for these events is QObject::childEvent().
.SH MEMBER FUNCTION DOCUMENTATION
.SH "QChildEvent::QChildEvent ( Type type, QObject * child )"
Constructs a child event object.
.PP
The \fItype\fR parameter must be either \fIQEvent::ChildInserted\fR or \fIQEvent::ChildRemoved.\fR
.SH "QObject * QChildEvent::child () const"
Returns the child widget inserted or removed.
.SH "bool QChildEvent::inserted () const"
Returns TRUE if the widget received a new child.
.SH "bool QChildEvent::removed () const"
Returns TRUE if the object lost a child.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/qchildevent.html
.BR http://www.trolltech.com/faq/tech.html
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1992-2001 Trolltech AS, http://www.trolltech.com.  See the
license file included in the distribution for a complete license
statement.
.SH AUTHOR
Generated automatically from the source code.
.SH BUGS
If you find a bug in Qt, please report it as described in
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/bughowto.html .
Good bug reports make our job much simpler. Thank you.
.P
In case of content or formattting problems with this manual page, please
report them to
.BR qt-bugs@trolltech.com .
Please include the name of the manual page (qchildevent.3qt) and the Qt
version (2.3.2).
