'\" t
.TH QColorDrag 3qt "29 October 2001" "Trolltech AS" \" -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright 1992-2001 Trolltech AS.  All rights reserved.  See the
.\" license file included in the distribution for a complete license
.\" statement.
.\"
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
QColorDrag \- Drag-and-drop object for transferring colors
.br
.PP
\fC#include <qdragobject.h>\fR
.PP
Inherits QStoredDrag.
.PP
.SS "Public Members"
.in +1c
.ti -1c
.BI "\fBQColorDrag\fR ( const QColor & " "col" ", QWidget * " "dragsource" " = 0, const char * " "name" " = 0 ) "
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "\fBQColorDrag\fR ( QWidget * " "dragSource" " = 0, const char * " "name" " = 0 ) "
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "void \fBsetColor\fR ( const QColor & col ) "
.br
.in -1c
.SS "Static Public Members"
.in +1c
.ti -1c
.BI "bool \fBcanDecode\fR ( QMimeSource * ) "
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "bool \fBdecode\fR ( QMimeSource *, QColor & col ) "
.br
.in -1c
.SH DESCRIPTION
The QColorDrag class provides a drag-and-drop object for transferring colors.
.PP
This class provides a drag object which can be used to transfer data about colors for drag-and-drop and over the clipboard. It's e.g. used in the QColorDialog.
.PP
For detailed information about drag-and-drop, see the QDragObject class.
.SH MEMBER FUNCTION DOCUMENTATION
.SH "QColorDrag::QColorDrag ( QWidget * dragsource = 0, const char * name = 0 )"
Constructs a color drag with a while color.
.SH "QColorDrag::QColorDrag ( const QColor & col, QWidget * dragsource = 0, const char * name = 0 )"
Constructs a color drag with the color \fIcol.\fR
.SH "bool QColorDrag::canDecode ( QMimeSource * e ) \fC[static]\fR"
Returns TRUE, if the color drag object can decode the mime source \fIe.\fR
.SH "bool QColorDrag::decode ( QMimeSource * e, QColor & col ) \fC[static]\fR"
Decodes the mime source \fIe\fR and sets the decoded values to \fIcol.\fR
.SH "void QColorDrag::setColor ( const QColor & col )"
Sets the color of the color drag to \fIcol\fR
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/qcolordrag.html
.BR http://www.trolltech.com/faq/tech.html
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1992-2001 Trolltech AS, http://www.trolltech.com.  See the
license file included in the distribution for a complete license
statement.
.SH AUTHOR
Generated automatically from the source code.
.SH BUGS
If you find a bug in Qt, please report it as described in
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/bughowto.html .
Good bug reports make our job much simpler. Thank you.
.P
In case of content or formattting problems with this manual page, please
report them to
.BR qt-bugs@trolltech.com .
Please include the name of the manual page (qcolordrag.3qt) and the Qt
version (2.3.2).
