'\" t
.TH QDomNotation 3qt "29 October 2001" "Trolltech AS" \" -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright 1992-2001 Trolltech AS.  All rights reserved.  See the
.\" license file included in the distribution for a complete license
.\" statement.
.\"
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
QDomNotation \- Represents an XML notation
.br
.PP
\fC#include <qdom.h>\fR
.PP
Inherits QDomNode.
.PP
.SS "Public Members"
.in +1c
.ti -1c
.BI "\fBQDomNotation\fR () "
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "\fBQDomNotation\fR ( const QDomNotation & x ) "
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "QDomNotation& \fBoperator=\fR ( const QDomNotation & ) "
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "\fB~QDomNotation\fR () "
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "QString \fBpublicId\fR () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "QString \fBsystemId\fR () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual QDomNode::NodeType \fBnodeType\fR () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual bool \fBisNotation\fR () const"
.br
.in -1c
.SH DESCRIPTION
The QDomNotation class represents an XML notation.
.PP
A notation either declares, by name, the format of an unparsed entity (see section 4.7 of the XML 1.0 specification), or is used for formal declaration of processing instruction targets (see section 2.6 of the XML 1.0 specification).
.PP
DOM does not support editing notation nodes; they are therefore readonly.
.PP
A notation node does not have any parent.
.PP
For further information about the Document Objct Model see http://www.w3.org/TR/REC-DOM-Level-1/. For a more general introduction of the DOM implementation see the QDomDocument documentation.
.SH MEMBER FUNCTION DOCUMENTATION
.SH "QDomNotation::QDomNotation ()"
Constructor.
.SH "QDomNotation::QDomNotation ( const QDomNotation & x )"
Copy constructor.
.PP
The data of the copy is shared: modifying one will also change the other. If you want to make a real copy, use cloneNode() instead.
.SH "QDomNotation::~QDomNotation ()"
Destructor.
.SH "bool QDomNotation::isNotation () const \fC[virtual]\fR"
Returns TRUE.
.PP
Reimplemented from QDomNode.
.SH "QDomNode::NodeType QDomNotation::nodeType() const \fC[virtual]\fR"
Returns \fCNotationNode.\fR
.PP
Reimplemented from QDomNode.
.SH "QDomNotation& QDomNotation::operator= ( const QDomNotation & x )"
Assignment operator.
.PP
The data of the copy is shared: modifying one will also change the other. If you want to make a real copy, use cloneNode() instead.
.SH "QString QDomNotation::publicId () const"
Returns the public identifier of this notation.
.SH "QString QDomNotation::systemId () const"
Returns the system identifier of this notation.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/qdomnotation.html
.BR http://www.trolltech.com/faq/tech.html
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1992-2001 Trolltech AS, http://www.trolltech.com.  See the
license file included in the distribution for a complete license
statement.
.SH AUTHOR
Generated automatically from the source code.
.SH BUGS
If you find a bug in Qt, please report it as described in
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/bughowto.html .
Good bug reports make our job much simpler. Thank you.
.P
In case of content or formattting problems with this manual page, please
report them to
.BR qt-bugs@trolltech.com .
Please include the name of the manual page (qdomnotation.3qt) and the Qt
version (2.3.2).
