'\" t
.TH QDomEntityReference 3qt "29 October 2001" "Trolltech AS" \" -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright 1992-2001 Trolltech AS.  All rights reserved.  See the
.\" license file included in the distribution for a complete license
.\" statement.
.\"
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
QDomEntityReference \- Represents an XML entity reference
.br
.PP
\fC#include <qdom.h>\fR
.PP
Inherits QDomNode.
.PP
.SS "Public Members"
.in +1c
.ti -1c
.BI "\fBQDomEntityReference\fR () "
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "\fBQDomEntityReference\fR ( const QDomEntityReference & x ) "
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "QDomEntityReference& \fBoperator=\fR ( const QDomEntityReference & ) "
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "\fB~QDomEntityReference\fR () "
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual QDomNode::NodeType \fBnodeType\fR () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual bool \fBisEntityReference\fR () const"
.br
.in -1c
.SH DESCRIPTION
The QDomEntityReference class represents an XML entity reference.
.PP
A QDomEntityReference object may be inserted into the DOM tree when an entity reference is in the source document, or when the user wishes to insert an entity reference.
.PP
Note that character references and references to predefined entities are expanded by the XML processor so that characters are represented by their Unicode equivalent rather than by an entity reference.
.PP
Moreover, the XML processor may completely expand references to entities while building the DOM tree, instead of providing QDomEntityReference objects.
.PP
If it does provide such objects, then for a given entity reference node, it may be that there is no entity node representing the referenced entity; but if such an entity exists, then the child list of the entity reference node is the same as that of the entity node. As with the entity node, all descendants of the entity reference are readonly.
.PP
For further information about the Document Objct Model see http://www.w3.org/TR/REC-DOM-Level-1/. For a more general introduction of the DOM implementation see the QDomDocument documentation.
.SH MEMBER FUNCTION DOCUMENTATION
.SH "QDomEntityReference::QDomEntityReference ()"
Constructs an empty entity reference. Use QDomDocument::createEntityReference() to create a entity reference with content.
.SH "QDomEntityReference::QDomEntityReference ( const QDomEntityReference & x )"
Copy constructor.
.PP
The data of the copy is shared: modifying one will also change the other. If you want to make a real copy, use cloneNode() instead.
.SH "QDomEntityReference::~QDomEntityReference ()"
Destructor.
.SH "bool QDomEntityReference::isEntityReference () const \fC[virtual]\fR"
Returns TRUE.
.PP
Reimplemented from QDomNode.
.SH "QDomNode::NodeType QDomEntityReference::nodeType() const \fC[virtual]\fR"
Returns \fCEntityReference.\fR
.PP
Reimplemented from QDomNode.
.SH "QDomEntityReference& QDomEntityReference::operator= ( const QDomEntityReference & x )"
Assignment operator.
.PP
The data of the copy is shared: modifying one will also change the other. If
you want to make a real copy, use cloneNode() instead.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/qdomentityreference.html
.BR http://www.trolltech.com/faq/tech.html
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1992-2001 Trolltech AS, http://www.trolltech.com.  See the
license file included in the distribution for a complete license
statement.
.SH AUTHOR
Generated automatically from the source code.
.SH BUGS
If you find a bug in Qt, please report it as described in
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/bughowto.html .
Good bug reports make our job much simpler. Thank you.
.P
In case of content or formattting problems with this manual page, please
report them to
.BR qt-bugs@trolltech.com .
Please include the name of the manual page (qdomentityreference.3qt) and the Qt
version (2.3.2).
