'\" t
.TH QDomCharacterData 3qt "29 October 2001" "Trolltech AS" \" -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright 1992-2001 Trolltech AS.  All rights reserved.  See the
.\" license file included in the distribution for a complete license
.\" statement.
.\"
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
QDomCharacterData \- Represents a generic string in the DOM
.br
.PP
\fC#include <qdom.h>\fR
.PP
Inherits QDomNode.
.PP
Inherited by QDomComment and QDomText.
.PP
.SS "Public Members"
.in +1c
.ti -1c
.BI "\fBQDomCharacterData\fR () "
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "\fBQDomCharacterData\fR ( const QDomCharacterData & x ) "
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "QDomCharacterData& \fBoperator=\fR ( const QDomCharacterData & ) "
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "\fB~QDomCharacterData\fR () "
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual QString \fBdata\fR () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual void \fBsetData\fR ( const QString & ) "
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual uint \fBlength\fR () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual QString \fBsubstringData\fR ( unsigned long " "offset" ", unsigned long count ) "
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual void \fBappendData\fR ( const QString & arg ) "
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual void \fBinsertData\fR ( unsigned long " "offset" ", const QString & arg ) "
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual void \fBdeleteData\fR ( unsigned long " "offset" ", unsigned long count ) "
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual void \fBreplaceData\fR ( unsigned long " "offset" ", unsigned long " "count" ", const QString & arg ) "
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual QDomNode::NodeType \fBnodeType\fR () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual bool \fBisCharacterData\fR () const"
.br
.in -1c
.SH DESCRIPTION
The QDomCharacterData class represents a generic string in the DOM.
.PP
Character data as used in XML specifies a generic data string. More specialized versions of this class are QDomText, QDomComment and QDomCDATASection.
.PP
See also QDomText, QDomComment and QDomCDATASection.
.SH MEMBER FUNCTION DOCUMENTATION
.SH "QDomCharacterData::QDomCharacterData ()"
Constructs an empty character data object.
.SH "QDomCharacterData::QDomCharacterData ( const QDomCharacterData & x )"
Copy constructor.
.PP
The data of the copy is shared: modifying one will also change the other. If you want to make a real copy, use cloneNode() instead.
.SH "QDomCharacterData::~QDomCharacterData ()"
Destructor.
.SH "void QDomCharacterData::appendData ( const QString & arg ) \fC[virtual]\fR"
Appends \fIarg\fR to the stored string.
.SH "QString QDomCharacterData::data () const \fC[virtual]\fR"
Returns the string stored in this object.
.PP
If the node is a null node, it will return a null string.
.SH "void QDomCharacterData::deleteData ( unsigned long offset, unsigned long count ) \fC[virtual]\fR"
Deletes the substring starting at position \fIoffset\fR with length \fIcount.\fR
.SH "void QDomCharacterData::insertData ( unsigned long offset, const QString & arg ) \fC[virtual]\fR"
Inserts the string \fIarg\fR at position \fIoffset\fR into the stored string.
.SH "bool QDomCharacterData::isCharacterData () const \fC[virtual]\fR"
Returns TRUE.
.PP
Reimplemented from QDomNode.
.SH "uint QDomCharacterData::length () const \fC[virtual]\fR"
Returns the length of the stored string.
.SH "QDomNode::NodeType QDomCharacterData::nodeType() const \fC[virtual]\fR"
Returns the type of node this object refers to (i.e. \fCTextNode, CDATASectionNode, CommentNode\fR or \fCCharacterDataNode).\fR For a null node \fCCharacterDataNode\fR is returned.
.PP
Reimplemented from QDomNode.
.SH "QDomCharacterData& QDomCharacterData::operator= ( const QDomCharacterData & x )"
Assignment operator.
.PP
The data of the copy is shared: modifying one will also change the other. If you want to make a real copy, use cloneNode() instead.
.SH "void QDomCharacterData::replaceData ( unsigned long offset, unsigned long count, const QString & arg ) \fC[virtual]\fR"
Replaces the substring starting at \fIoffset\fR with length \fIcount\fR with the string \fIarg.\fR
.SH "void QDomCharacterData::setData ( const QString & v ) \fC[virtual]\fR"
Sets the string of this object to \fIv.\fR
.SH "QString QDomCharacterData::substringData ( unsigned long offset, unsigned long count ) \fC[virtual]\fR"
Returns the substring from position \fIoffset\fR with length \fIcount.\fR
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/qdomcharacterdata.html
.BR http://www.trolltech.com/faq/tech.html
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1992-2001 Trolltech AS, http://www.trolltech.com.  See the
license file included in the distribution for a complete license
statement.
.SH AUTHOR
Generated automatically from the source code.
.SH BUGS
If you find a bug in Qt, please report it as described in
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/bughowto.html .
Good bug reports make our job much simpler. Thank you.
.P
In case of content or formattting problems with this manual page, please
report them to
.BR qt-bugs@trolltech.com .
Please include the name of the manual page (qdomcharacterdata.3qt) and the Qt
version (2.3.2).
