'\" t
.TH QDomComment 3qt "29 October 2001" "Trolltech AS" \" -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright 1992-2001 Trolltech AS.  All rights reserved.  See the
.\" license file included in the distribution for a complete license
.\" statement.
.\"
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
QDomComment \- Represents an XML comment
.br
.PP
\fC#include <qdom.h>\fR
.PP
Inherits QDomCharacterData.
.PP
.SS "Public Members"
.in +1c
.ti -1c
.BI "\fBQDomComment\fR () "
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "\fBQDomComment\fR ( const QDomComment & x ) "
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "QDomComment& \fBoperator=\fR ( const QDomComment & ) "
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "\fB~QDomComment\fR () "
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual QDomNode::NodeType \fBnodeType\fR () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual bool \fBisComment\fR () const"
.br
.in -1c
.SH DESCRIPTION
The QDomComment class represents an XML comment.
.PP
A comment in the parsed XML such as
.PP
.nf
.br
  <!-- this is a comment -->
.fi
.PP
is represented by QDomComment objects in the parsed Dom tree.
.PP
For further information about the Document Objct Model see http://www.w3.org/TR/REC-DOM-Level-1/. For a more general introduction of the DOM implementation see the QDomDocument documentation.
.SH MEMBER FUNCTION DOCUMENTATION
.SH "QDomComment::QDomComment ()"
Constructs an empty comment. To construct a comment with content, use the QDomDocument::createComment() function.
.SH "QDomComment::QDomComment ( const QDomComment & x )"
Copy constructor.
.PP
The data of the copy is shared: modifying one will also change the other. If you want to make a real copy, use cloneNode() instead.
.SH "QDomComment::~QDomComment ()"
Destructor.
.SH "bool QDomComment::isComment () const \fC[virtual]\fR"
Returns TRUE.
.PP
Reimplemented from QDomNode.
.SH "QDomNode::NodeType QDomComment::nodeType() const \fC[virtual]\fR"
Returns \fCCommentNode.\fR
.PP
Reimplemented from QDomNode.
.SH "QDomComment& QDomComment::operator= ( const QDomComment & x )"
Assignment operator.
.PP
The data of the copy is shared: modifying one will also change the other. If
you want to make a real copy, use cloneNode() instead.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/qdomcomment.html
.BR http://www.trolltech.com/faq/tech.html
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1992-2001 Trolltech AS, http://www.trolltech.com.  See the
license file included in the distribution for a complete license
statement.
.SH AUTHOR
Generated automatically from the source code.
.SH BUGS
If you find a bug in Qt, please report it as described in
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/bughowto.html .
Good bug reports make our job much simpler. Thank you.
.P
In case of content or formattting problems with this manual page, please
report them to
.BR qt-bugs@trolltech.com .
Please include the name of the manual page (qdomcomment.3qt) and the Qt
version (2.3.2).
