'\" t
.TH QDomCDATASection 3qt "29 October 2001" "Trolltech AS" \" -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright 1992-2001 Trolltech AS.  All rights reserved.  See the
.\" license file included in the distribution for a complete license
.\" statement.
.\"
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
QDomCDATASection \- Represents an XML CDATA section
.br
.PP
\fC#include <qdom.h>\fR
.PP
Inherits QDomText.
.PP
.SS "Public Members"
.in +1c
.ti -1c
.BI "\fBQDomCDATASection\fR () "
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "\fBQDomCDATASection\fR ( const QDomCDATASection & x ) "
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "QDomCDATASection& \fBoperator=\fR ( const QDomCDATASection & ) "
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "\fB~QDomCDATASection\fR () "
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual QDomNode::NodeType \fBnodeType\fR () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual bool \fBisCDATASection\fR () const"
.br
.in -1c
.SH DESCRIPTION
The QDomCDATASection class represents an XML CDATA section.
.PP
CDATA sections are used to escape blocks of text containing characters that would otherwise be regarded as markup. The only delimiter that is recognized in a CDATA section is the "]]>" string that ends the CDATA section. CDATA sections can not be nested. The primary purpose is for including material such as XML fragments, without needing to escape all the delimiters.
.PP
Adjacent QDomCDATASection nodes are not merged by the QDomElement.normalize() function.
.PP
For further information about the Document Objct Model see http://www.w3.org/TR/REC-DOM-Level-1/. For a more general introduction of the DOM implementation see the QDomDocument documentation.
.SH MEMBER FUNCTION DOCUMENTATION
.SH "QDomCDATASection::QDomCDATASection ()"
Constructs an empty CDATA section. To create a CDATA section with content, use the QDomDocument::createCDATASection() function.
.SH "QDomCDATASection::QDomCDATASection ( const QDomCDATASection & x )"
Copy constructor.
.PP
The data of the copy is shared: modifying one will also change the other. If you want to make a real copy, use cloneNode() instead.
.SH "QDomCDATASection::~QDomCDATASection ()"
Destructor.
.SH "bool QDomCDATASection::isCDATASection () const \fC[virtual]\fR"
Returns TRUE.
.PP
Reimplemented from QDomNode.
.SH "QDomNode::NodeType QDomCDATASection::nodeType() const \fC[virtual]\fR"
Returns \fCCDATASection.\fR
.PP
Reimplemented from QDomNode.
.SH "QDomCDATASection& QDomCDATASection::operator= ( const QDomCDATASection & x )"
Assigment operator.
.PP
The data of the copy is shared: modifying one will also change the other. If
you want to make a real copy, use cloneNode() instead.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/qdomcdatasection.html
.BR http://www.trolltech.com/faq/tech.html
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1992-2001 Trolltech AS, http://www.trolltech.com.  See the
license file included in the distribution for a complete license
statement.
.SH AUTHOR
Generated automatically from the source code.
.SH BUGS
If you find a bug in Qt, please report it as described in
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/bughowto.html .
Good bug reports make our job much simpler. Thank you.
.P
In case of content or formattting problems with this manual page, please
report them to
.BR qt-bugs@trolltech.com .
Please include the name of the manual page (qdomcdatasection.3qt) and the Qt
version (2.3.2).
