'\" t
.TH QDomImplementation 3qt "29 October 2001" "Trolltech AS" \" -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright 1992-2001 Trolltech AS.  All rights reserved.  See the
.\" license file included in the distribution for a complete license
.\" statement.
.\"
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
QDomImplementation \- Information about the features of the DOM implementation
.br
.PP
\fC#include <qdom.h>\fR
.PP
.SS "Public Members"
.in +1c
.ti -1c
.BI "\fBQDomImplementation\fR () "
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "\fBQDomImplementation\fR ( const QDomImplementation & ) "
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual \fB~QDomImplementation\fR () "
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "QDomImplementation& \fBoperator=\fR ( const QDomImplementation & ) "
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "bool \fBoperator==\fR ( const QDomImplementation & ) const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "bool \fBoperator!=\fR ( const QDomImplementation & ) const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual bool \fBhasFeature\fR ( const QString & " "feature" ", const QString & version ) "
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "bool \fBisNull\fR () "
.br
.in -1c
.SH DESCRIPTION
The QDomImplementation class provides information about the features of the DOM implementation.
.PP
This class describes the features that are supported by the DOM implementation. Currently only the XML subset of DOM Level 1 is supported.
.PP
Normally you will use the function QDomDocument::implementation() to get the implementation object.
.PP
For further information about the Document Objct Model see http://www.w3.org/TR/REC-DOM-Level-1/. For a more general introduction of the DOM implementation see the QDomDocument documentation.
.PP
See also hasFeature().
.SH MEMBER FUNCTION DOCUMENTATION
.SH "QDomImplementation::QDomImplementation ()"
Constructs a QDomImplementation object.
.SH "QDomImplementation::QDomImplementation ( const QDomImplementation & x )"
Copy constructor.
.SH "QDomImplementation::~QDomImplementation () \fC[virtual]\fR"
Destructor.
.SH "bool QDomImplementation::hasFeature ( const QString & feature, const QString & version ) \fC[virtual]\fR"
The function returns TRUE if QDom implements the requested \fIversion\fR of a \fIfeature.\fR
.PP
Currently only the feature "XML" in version "1.0" is supported.
.SH "bool QDomImplementation::isNull ()"
Returns TRUE if the object was not created by QDomDocument::implementation().
.SH "bool QDomImplementation::operator!= ( const QDomImplementation & x ) const"
Returns TRUE if both objects were created from different QDomDocuments.
.SH "QDomImplementation& QDomImplementation::operator= ( const QDomImplementation & x )"
Assignment operator.
.SH "bool QDomImplementation::operator== ( const QDomImplementation & x ) const"
Returns TRUE if both objects were created from the same QDomDocument.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/qdomimplementation.html
.BR http://www.trolltech.com/faq/tech.html
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1992-2001 Trolltech AS, http://www.trolltech.com.  See the
license file included in the distribution for a complete license
statement.
.SH AUTHOR
Generated automatically from the source code.
.SH BUGS
If you find a bug in Qt, please report it as described in
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/bughowto.html .
Good bug reports make our job much simpler. Thank you.
.P
In case of content or formattting problems with this manual page, please
report them to
.BR qt-bugs@trolltech.com .
Please include the name of the manual page (qdomimplementation.3qt) and the Qt
version (2.3.2).
