'\" t
.TH QDomNodeList 3qt "29 October 2001" "Trolltech AS" \" -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright 1992-2001 Trolltech AS.  All rights reserved.  See the
.\" license file included in the distribution for a complete license
.\" statement.
.\"
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
QDomNodeList \- List of
.br
.PP
\fC#include <qdom.h>\fR
.PP
.SS "Public Members"
.in +1c
.ti -1c
.BI "\fBQDomNodeList\fR () "
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "\fBQDomNodeList\fR ( const QDomNodeList & ) "
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "QDomNodeList& \fBoperator=\fR ( const QDomNodeList & ) "
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "bool \fBoperator==\fR ( const QDomNodeList & ) const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "bool \fBoperator!=\fR ( const QDomNodeList & ) const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual \fB~QDomNodeList\fR () "
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual QDomNode \fBitem\fR ( int index ) const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual uint \fBlength\fR () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "uint \fBcount\fR () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "\fBQDomNodeList\fR ( QDOM_NodeListPrivate * ) (internal)"
.br
.in -1c
.SH DESCRIPTION
The QDomNodeList class is a list of QDomNode objects.
.PP
Lists can be obtained by QDomDocument::elementsByTagName() and QDomNode::childNodes(). The Document Object Model (DOM) requires these lists to be "live": whenever you change the underlying document, the contents of the list will get updated.
.PP
For further information about the Document Objct Model see http://www.w3.org/TR/REC-DOM-Level-1/. For a more general introduction of the DOM implementation see the QDomDocument documentation.
.PP
See also QDomNode::childNode() and QDomDocument::elementsByTagName().
.SH MEMBER FUNCTION DOCUMENTATION
.SH "QDomNodeList::QDomNodeList ()"
Creates an empty node list.
.SH "QDomNodeList::QDomNodeList ( const QDomNodeList & n )"
Copy constructor.
.SH "QDomNodeList::~QDomNodeList () \fC[virtual]\fR"
Destructor.
.SH "uint QDomNodeList::count () const"
Returns the number of nodes in the list.
.PP
This function is the same as length().
.SH "QDomNode QDomNodeList::item ( int index ) const \fC[virtual]\fR"
Returns the node at position \fIindex.\fR
.PP
If \fIindex\fR is negative or if \fIindex\fR >= length() then a null node is returned (i.e. a node for which QDomNode::isNull() returns TRUE).
.SH "uint QDomNodeList::length () const \fC[virtual]\fR"
Returns the number of nodes in the list.
.PP
This function is the same as count().
.SH "bool QDomNodeList::operator!= ( const QDomNodeList & n ) const"
Returns TRUE if both lists are not equal, otherwise FALSE.
.SH "QDomNodeList& QDomNodeList::operator= ( const QDomNodeList & n )"
Assigns another node list to this object.
.SH "bool QDomNodeList::operator== ( const QDomNodeList & n ) const"
Returns TRUE if both lists are equal, otherwise FALSE.
.SH "QDomNodeList::QDomNodeList ( QDOM_NodeListPrivate * p )"
For internal use only.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/qdomnodelist.html
.BR http://www.trolltech.com/faq/tech.html
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1992-2001 Trolltech AS, http://www.trolltech.com.  See the
license file included in the distribution for a complete license
statement.
.SH AUTHOR
Generated automatically from the source code.
.SH BUGS
If you find a bug in Qt, please report it as described in
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/bughowto.html .
Good bug reports make our job much simpler. Thank you.
.P
In case of content or formattting problems with this manual page, please
report them to
.BR qt-bugs@trolltech.com .
Please include the name of the manual page (qdomnodelist.3qt) and the Qt
version (2.3.2).
