'\" t
.TH QDomNamedNodeMap 3qt "29 October 2001" "Trolltech AS" \" -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright 1992-2001 Trolltech AS.  All rights reserved.  See the
.\" license file included in the distribution for a complete license
.\" statement.
.\"
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
QDomNamedNodeMap \- Collection of nodes that can be accessed by name
.br
.PP
\fC#include <qdom.h>\fR
.PP
.SS "Public Members"
.in +1c
.ti -1c
.BI "\fBQDomNamedNodeMap\fR () "
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "\fBQDomNamedNodeMap\fR ( const QDomNamedNodeMap & ) "
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "QDomNamedNodeMap& \fBoperator=\fR ( const QDomNamedNodeMap & ) "
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "bool \fBoperator==\fR ( const QDomNamedNodeMap & ) const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "bool \fBoperator!=\fR ( const QDomNamedNodeMap & ) const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "\fB~QDomNamedNodeMap\fR () "
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "QDomNode \fBnamedItem\fR ( const QString & name ) const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "QDomNode \fBsetNamedItem\fR ( const QDomNode & arg ) "
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "QDomNode \fBremoveNamedItem\fR ( const QString & name ) "
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "QDomNode \fBitem\fR ( int index ) const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "uint \fBlength\fR () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "bool \fBcontains\fR ( const QString & name ) const"
.br
.in -1c
.SH DESCRIPTION
The QDomNamedNodeMap class contains a collection of nodes that can be accessed by name.
.PP
Note that QDomNamedNodeMap does not inherit from QDomNodeList; QDomNamedNodeMaps does not provide any specific order of the nodes. Nodes contained in a QDomNamedNodeMap may also be accessed by an ordinal index, but this is simply to allow a convenient enumeration of the contents of a QDomNamedNodeMap and does not imply that the DOM specifies an order on the nodes.
.PP
The QDomNamedNodeMap is used in three places:
.TP
QDomDocumentType::entities() returns a map of all entities described in the DTD.
.TP
QDomDocumentType::notations() returns a map of all notations described in the DTD.
.TP
QDomElement::attributes() returns a map of all attributes of the element.
.PP
Items in the map are identified by the name which QDomNode::name() returns. They can be queried using the namedItem() function and set using setNamedItem().
.PP
See also namedItem() and setNamedItem().
.SH MEMBER FUNCTION DOCUMENTATION
.SH "QDomNamedNodeMap::QDomNamedNodeMap ()"
Constructs an empty map.
.SH "QDomNamedNodeMap::QDomNamedNodeMap ( const QDomNamedNodeMap & n )"
Copy constructor.
.SH "QDomNamedNodeMap::~QDomNamedNodeMap ()"
Destructor.
.SH "bool QDomNamedNodeMap::contains ( const QString & name ) const"
Returns TRUE if the map contains a node with the name \fIname,\fR otherwise FALSE.
.SH "QDomNode QDomNamedNodeMap::item ( int index ) const"
Retrieves the node at position \fIindex.\fR
.PP
This can be used to iterate over the map.
.PP
See also length().
.SH "uint QDomNamedNodeMap::length () const"
Returns the number of nodes in the map.
.PP
See also item().
.SH "QDomNode QDomNamedNodeMap::namedItem ( const QString & name ) const"
Returns the node associated with they key \fIname.\fR
.PP
If the map does not contain such a node, then a null node is returned.
.PP
See also setNamedItem().
.SH "bool QDomNamedNodeMap::operator!= ( const QDomNamedNodeMap & n ) const"
Returns TRUE if the maps are not equal, FALSE otherwise.
.SH "QDomNamedNodeMap& QDomNamedNodeMap::operator= ( const QDomNamedNodeMap & n )"
Assignement operator.
.SH "bool QDomNamedNodeMap::operator== ( const QDomNamedNodeMap & n ) const"
Returns TRUE if the maps are equal, FALSE otherwise.
.SH "QDomNode QDomNamedNodeMap::removeNamedItem ( const QString & name )"
Removes the node with the name \fIname\fR from the map.
.PP
The function returns the removed node or a null node if the map did not contain a node with the name \fIname.\fR
.PP
See also setNamedItem().
.SH "QDomNode QDomNamedNodeMap::setNamedItem ( const QDomNode & newNode )"
Inserts the node \fInewNode\fR in the map. The kye for the map is the name of \fInewNode\fR as returned by QDomNode::nodeName().
.PP
The function returns the newly inserted node.
.PP
See also  removeNamedItem().
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/qdomnamednodemap.html
.BR http://www.trolltech.com/faq/tech.html
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1992-2001 Trolltech AS, http://www.trolltech.com.  See the
license file included in the distribution for a complete license
statement.
.SH AUTHOR
Generated automatically from the source code.
.SH BUGS
If you find a bug in Qt, please report it as described in
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/bughowto.html .
Good bug reports make our job much simpler. Thank you.
.P
In case of content or formattting problems with this manual page, please
report them to
.BR qt-bugs@trolltech.com .
Please include the name of the manual page (qdomnamednodemap.3qt) and the Qt
version (2.3.2).
