'\" t
.TH QDomDocumentType 3qt "29 October 2001" "Trolltech AS" \" -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright 1992-2001 Trolltech AS.  All rights reserved.  See the
.\" license file included in the distribution for a complete license
.\" statement.
.\"
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
QDomDocumentType \- The representation of the DTD in the document tree
.br
.PP
\fC#include <qdom.h>\fR
.PP
Inherits QDomNode.
.PP
.SS "Public Members"
.in +1c
.ti -1c
.BI "\fBQDomDocumentType\fR () "
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "\fBQDomDocumentType\fR ( const QDomDocumentType & x ) "
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "QDomDocumentType& \fBoperator=\fR ( const QDomDocumentType & ) "
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "\fB~QDomDocumentType\fR () "
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual QString \fBname\fR () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual QDomNamedNodeMap \fBentities\fR () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual QDomNamedNodeMap \fBnotations\fR () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual QDomNode::NodeType \fBnodeType\fR () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual bool \fBisDocumentType\fR () const"
.br
.in -1c
.SH DESCRIPTION
The QDomDocumentType class is the representation of the DTD in the document tree.
.PP
The QDomDocumentType class allows readonly access to some of the data structures in the DTD: it can return a map of all entities() and notations().
.PP
In addition the function name() returns the name of the document type as specified in the <!DOCTYPE name> tag.
.PP
See also QDomDocument.
.SH MEMBER FUNCTION DOCUMENTATION
.SH "QDomDocumentType::QDomDocumentType ()"
Creates an empty QDomDocumentType object.
.SH "QDomDocumentType::QDomDocumentType ( const QDomDocumentType & n )"
Copy constructor.
.PP
The data of the copy is shared: modifying one will also change the other. If you want to make a real copy, use cloneNode() instead.
.SH "QDomDocumentType::~QDomDocumentType ()"
Destructor.
.SH "QDomNamedNodeMap QDomDocumentType::entities () const \fC[virtual]\fR"
Returns a map of all entities described in the DTD.
.SH "bool QDomDocumentType::isDocumentType () const \fC[virtual]\fR"
This function overloads QDomNode::isDocumentType().
.PP
See also nodeType() and QDomNode::toDocumentType().
.PP
Reimplemented from QDomNode.
.SH "QString QDomDocumentType::name () const \fC[virtual]\fR"
Returns the name of the document type as specified in the <!DOCTYPE name> tag.
.PP
See also nodeName().
.SH "QDomNode::NodeType QDomDocumentType::nodeType() const \fC[virtual]\fR"
Returns \fCDocumentTypeNode.\fR
.PP
See also isDocumentType() and QDomNode::toDocumentType().
.PP
Reimplemented from QDomNode.
.SH "QDomNamedNodeMap QDomDocumentType::notations () const \fC[virtual]\fR"
Returns a map of all notations described in the DTD.
.SH "QDomDocumentType& QDomDocumentType::operator= ( const QDomDocumentType & n )"
Assignement operator.
.PP
The data of the copy is shared: modifying one will also change the other. If
you want to make a real copy, use cloneNode() instead.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/qdomdocumenttype.html
.BR http://www.trolltech.com/faq/tech.html
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1992-2001 Trolltech AS, http://www.trolltech.com.  See the
license file included in the distribution for a complete license
statement.
.SH AUTHOR
Generated automatically from the source code.
.SH BUGS
If you find a bug in Qt, please report it as described in
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/bughowto.html .
Good bug reports make our job much simpler. Thank you.
.P
In case of content or formattting problems with this manual page, please
report them to
.BR qt-bugs@trolltech.com .
Please include the name of the manual page (qdomdocumenttype.3qt) and the Qt
version (2.3.2).
