'\" t
.TH QDomText 3qt "29 October 2001" "Trolltech AS" \" -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright 1992-2001 Trolltech AS.  All rights reserved.  See the
.\" license file included in the distribution for a complete license
.\" statement.
.\"
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
QDomText \- Represents textual data in the parsed XML document
.br
.PP
\fC#include <qdom.h>\fR
.PP
Inherits QDomCharacterData.
.PP
Inherited by QDomCDATASection.
.PP
.SS "Public Members"
.in +1c
.ti -1c
.BI "\fBQDomText\fR () "
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "\fBQDomText\fR ( const QDomText & x ) "
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "QDomText& \fBoperator=\fR ( const QDomText & ) "
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "\fB~QDomText\fR () "
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "QDomText \fBsplitText\fR ( int offset ) "
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual QDomNode::NodeType \fBnodeType\fR () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual bool \fBisText\fR () const"
.br
.in -1c
.SH DESCRIPTION
The QDomText class represents textual data in the parsed XML document.
.PP
For further information about the Document Objct Model see http://www.w3.org/TR/REC-DOM-Level-1/. For a more general introduction of the DOM implementation see the QDomDocument documentation.
.SH MEMBER FUNCTION DOCUMENTATION
.SH "QDomText::QDomText ()"
Constructs an empty QDomText object.
.PP
To construct a QDomText with content, use QDomDocument::createTextNode().
.SH "QDomText::QDomText ( const QDomText & x )"
Copy constructor.
.PP
The data of the copy is shared: modifying one will also change the other. If you want to make a real copy, use cloneNode() instead.
.SH "QDomText::~QDomText ()"
Destructor.
.SH "bool QDomText::isText () const \fC[virtual]\fR"
Returns TRUE.
.PP
Reimplemented from QDomNode.
.SH "QDomNode::NodeType QDomText::nodeType() const \fC[virtual]\fR"
Returns \fCTextNode.\fR
.PP
Reimplemented from QDomNode.
.SH "QDomText& QDomText::operator= ( const QDomText & x )"
Assignment operator.
.PP
The data of the copy is shared: modifying one will also change the other. If you want to make a real copy, use cloneNode() instead.
.SH "QDomText QDomText::splitText ( int offset )"
Splits this object at position \fIoffset\fR into two QDomText objects. The newly created object is inserted into the document tree after this object.
.PP
The function returns the newly created object.
.PP
See also  QDomElement::normalize().
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/qdomtext.html
.BR http://www.trolltech.com/faq/tech.html
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1992-2001 Trolltech AS, http://www.trolltech.com.  See the
license file included in the distribution for a complete license
statement.
.SH AUTHOR
Generated automatically from the source code.
.SH BUGS
If you find a bug in Qt, please report it as described in
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/bughowto.html .
Good bug reports make our job much simpler. Thank you.
.P
In case of content or formattting problems with this manual page, please
report them to
.BR qt-bugs@trolltech.com .
Please include the name of the manual page (qdomtext.3qt) and the Qt
version (2.3.2).
