'\" t
.TH QDomEntity 3qt "29 October 2001" "Trolltech AS" \" -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright 1992-2001 Trolltech AS.  All rights reserved.  See the
.\" license file included in the distribution for a complete license
.\" statement.
.\"
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
QDomEntity \- Represents an XML entity
.br
.PP
\fC#include <qdom.h>\fR
.PP
Inherits QDomNode.
.PP
.SS "Public Members"
.in +1c
.ti -1c
.BI "\fBQDomEntity\fR () "
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "\fBQDomEntity\fR ( const QDomEntity & x ) "
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "QDomEntity& \fBoperator=\fR ( const QDomEntity & ) "
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "\fB~QDomEntity\fR () "
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual QString \fBpublicId\fR () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual QString \fBsystemId\fR () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual QString \fBnotationName\fR () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual QDomNode::NodeType \fBnodeType\fR () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual bool \fBisEntity\fR () const"
.br
.in -1c
.SH DESCRIPTION
The QDomEntity class represents an XML entity.
.PP
This class represents an entity in an XML document, either parsed or unparsed. Note that this models the entity itself not the entity declaration.
.PP
DOM does not support editing entity nodes; if a user wants to make changes to the contents of an entity, every related QDomEntityReference node has to be replaced in the DOM tree by a clone of the entity's contents, and then the desired changes must be made to each of those clones instead. All the descendants of an entity node are readonly.
.PP
An entity node does not have any parent.
.PP
For further information about the Document Objct Model see http://www.w3.org/TR/REC-DOM-Level-1/. For a more general introduction of the DOM implementation see the QDomDocument documentation.
.SH MEMBER FUNCTION DOCUMENTATION
.SH "QDomEntity::QDomEntity ()"
Constructs an empty entity.
.SH "QDomEntity::QDomEntity ( const QDomEntity & x )"
Copy constructor.
.PP
The data of the copy is shared: modifying one will also change the other. If you want to make a real copy, use cloneNode() instead.
.SH "QDomEntity::~QDomEntity ()"
Destructor.
.SH "bool QDomEntity::isEntity () const \fC[virtual]\fR"
Returns TRUE.
.PP
Reimplemented from QDomNode.
.SH "QDomNode::NodeType QDomEntity::nodeType() const \fC[virtual]\fR"
Returns \fCEntityNode.\fR
.PP
Reimplemented from QDomNode.
.SH "QString QDomEntity::notationName () const \fC[virtual]\fR"
For unparsed entities this function returns the name of the notation for the entity. For parsed entities this function returns QString::null.
.SH "QDomEntity& QDomEntity::operator= ( const QDomEntity & x )"
Assignment operator.
.PP
The data of the copy is shared: modifying one will also change the other. If you want to make a real copy, use cloneNode() instead.
.SH "QString QDomEntity::publicId () const \fC[virtual]\fR"
Returns the public identifier associated with this entity. If the public identifier was not specified QString::null is returned.
.SH "QString QDomEntity::systemId () const \fC[virtual]\fR"
Returns the system identifier associated with this entity.
If the system identifier was not specified QString::null is returned.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/qdomentity.html
.BR http://www.trolltech.com/faq/tech.html
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1992-2001 Trolltech AS, http://www.trolltech.com.  See the
license file included in the distribution for a complete license
statement.
.SH AUTHOR
Generated automatically from the source code.
.SH BUGS
If you find a bug in Qt, please report it as described in
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/bughowto.html .
Good bug reports make our job much simpler. Thank you.
.P
In case of content or formattting problems with this manual page, please
report them to
.BR qt-bugs@trolltech.com .
Please include the name of the manual page (qdomentity.3qt) and the Qt
version (2.3.2).
