'\" t
.TH QDomProcessingInstruction 3qt "29 October 2001" "Trolltech AS" \" -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright 1992-2001 Trolltech AS.  All rights reserved.  See the
.\" license file included in the distribution for a complete license
.\" statement.
.\"
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
QDomProcessingInstruction \- Represents an XML processing instruction
.br
.PP
\fC#include <qdom.h>\fR
.PP
Inherits QDomNode.
.PP
.SS "Public Members"
.in +1c
.ti -1c
.BI "\fBQDomProcessingInstruction\fR () "
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "\fBQDomProcessingInstruction\fR ( const QDomProcessingInstruction & x ) "
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "QDomProcessingInstruction& \fBoperator=\fR ( const QDomProcessingInstruction & ) "
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "\fB~QDomProcessingInstruction\fR () "
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual QString \fBtarget\fR () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual QString \fBdata\fR () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual void \fBsetData\fR ( const QString & d ) "
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual QDomNode::NodeType \fBnodeType\fR () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual bool \fBisProcessingInstruction\fR () const"
.br
.in -1c
.SH DESCRIPTION
The QDomProcessingInstruction class represents an XML processing instruction.
.PP
Processing instructions are used in XML as a way to keep processor-specific information in the text of the document.
.PP
For further information about the Document Objct Model see http://www.w3.org/TR/REC-DOM-Level-1/. For a more general introduction of the DOM implementation see the QDomDocument documentation.
.SH MEMBER FUNCTION DOCUMENTATION
.SH "QDomProcessingInstruction::QDomProcessingInstruction ()"
Constructs an empty processing instruction. Use QDomDocument::createProcessingInstruction() to create a processing instruction with content.
.SH "QDomProcessingInstruction::QDomProcessingInstruction ( const QDomProcessingInstruction & x )"
Copy constructor.
.PP
The data of the copy is shared: modifying one will also change the other. If you want to make a real copy, use cloneNode() instead.
.SH "QDomProcessingInstruction::~QDomProcessingInstruction ()"
Destructor.
.SH "QString QDomProcessingInstruction::data () const \fC[virtual]\fR"
Returns the content of this processing instruction.
.PP
See also setData() and target().
.SH "bool QDomProcessingInstruction::isProcessingInstruction () const \fC[virtual]\fR"
Returns TRUE.
.PP
Reimplemented from QDomNode.
.SH "QDomNode::NodeType QDomProcessingInstruction::nodeType() const \fC[virtual]\fR"
Returns \fCProcessingInstructionNode.\fR
.PP
Reimplemented from QDomNode.
.SH "QDomProcessingInstruction& QDomProcessingInstruction::operator= ( const QDomProcessingInstruction & x )"
Assignment operator.
.PP
The data of the copy is shared: modifying one will also change the other. If you want to make a real copy, use cloneNode() instead.
.SH "void QDomProcessingInstruction::setData ( const QString & d ) \fC[virtual]\fR"
Sets the data contained in the processing instruction.
.PP
See also data().
.SH "QString QDomProcessingInstruction::target () const \fC[virtual]\fR"
Returns the target of this processing instruction.
.PP
See also  data().
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/qdomprocessinginstruction.html
.BR http://www.trolltech.com/faq/tech.html
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1992-2001 Trolltech AS, http://www.trolltech.com.  See the
license file included in the distribution for a complete license
statement.
.SH AUTHOR
Generated automatically from the source code.
.SH BUGS
If you find a bug in Qt, please report it as described in
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/bughowto.html .
Good bug reports make our job much simpler. Thank you.
.P
In case of content or formattting problems with this manual page, please
report them to
.BR qt-bugs@trolltech.com .
Please include the name of the manual page (qdomprocessinginstruction.3qt) and the Qt
version (2.3.2).
