'\" t
.TH QDragLeaveEvent 3qt "29 October 2001" "Trolltech AS" \" -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright 1992-2001 Trolltech AS.  All rights reserved.  See the
.\" license file included in the distribution for a complete license
.\" statement.
.\"
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
QDragLeaveEvent \- The event sent to widgets when a drag-and-drop leaves it
.br
.PP
\fC#include <qevent.h>\fR
.PP
Inherits QEvent.
.PP
.SS "Public Members"
.in +1c
.ti -1c
.BI "\fBQDragLeaveEvent\fR () "
.br
.in -1c
.SH DESCRIPTION
The event sent to widgets when a drag-and-drop leaves it.
.PP
This event is always preceded by a QDragEnterEvent and a series of QDragMoveEvent. It is not sent if a QDropEvent is sent instead.
.PP
See also QDragEnterEvent, QDragMoveEvent and QDropEvent.
.PP
Examples:
.(l
desktop/desktop.cpp
.)l
.SH MEMBER FUNCTION DOCUMENTATION
.SH "QDragLeaveEvent::QDragLeaveEvent ()"
Constructs a QDragLeaveEvent.
Note that QDragLeaveEvent constructed outside of the Qt internals
will not work - they currently rely on internal state.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/qdragleaveevent.html
.BR http://www.trolltech.com/faq/tech.html
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1992-2001 Trolltech AS, http://www.trolltech.com.  See the
license file included in the distribution for a complete license
statement.
.SH AUTHOR
Generated automatically from the source code.
.SH BUGS
If you find a bug in Qt, please report it as described in
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/bughowto.html .
Good bug reports make our job much simpler. Thank you.
.P
In case of content or formattting problems with this manual page, please
report them to
.BR qt-bugs@trolltech.com .
Please include the name of the manual page (qdragleaveevent.3qt) and the Qt
version (2.3.2).
