'\" t
.TH QDragMoveEvent 3qt "29 October 2001" "Trolltech AS" \" -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright 1992-2001 Trolltech AS.  All rights reserved.  See the
.\" license file included in the distribution for a complete license
.\" statement.
.\"
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
QDragMoveEvent \- Event sent as a drag-and-drop is in progress
.br
.PP
\fC#include <qevent.h>\fR
.PP
Inherits QDropEvent.
.PP
Inherited by QDragEnterEvent.
.PP
.SS "Public Members"
.in +1c
.ti -1c
.BI "\fBQDragMoveEvent\fR ( const QPoint & " "pos" ", Type " "typ" "=DragMove ) "
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "QRect \fBanswerRect\fR () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "void \fBaccept\fR ( const QRect & r ) "
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "void \fBignore\fR ( const QRect & r ) "
.br
.in -1c
.SH DESCRIPTION
Event sent as a drag-and-drop is in progress.
.PP
When a widget accepts drop events, it will receive this event repeatedly while the the drag is inside that widget. The widget should examine the event, especially seeing what data it provides, and accept() the drop if appropriate.
.PP
Note that this class inherits most of its functionality from QDropEvent.
.PP
Examples:
.(l
desktop/desktop.cpp
.)l
.SH MEMBER FUNCTION DOCUMENTATION
.SH "QDragMoveEvent::QDragMoveEvent ( const QPoint & pos, Type type=DragMove )"
Creates a QDragMoveEvent for which the mouse is at point \fIpos,\fR and the given event \fItype.\fR
.PP
Note that internal state is also involved with QDragMoveEvent, so it is not useful to create these yourself.
.SH "void QDragMoveEvent::accept ( bool y=TRUE )"
Reimplemented for internal reasons; the API is not affected.
.SH "void QDragMoveEvent::accept ( const QRect & r )"
The same as accept(), but also notifies that future moves will also be acceptable if they remain within the rectangle \fIr\fR on the widget - this can improve performance, but may also be ignored by the underlying system.
.PP
If the rectangle is empty, then drag move events will be sent continuously. This is useful if the source is scrolling in a timer event.
.SH "QRect QDragMoveEvent::answerRect () const"
Returns the rectangle for which the acceptance of the move event applies.
.SH "void QDragMoveEvent::ignore ()"
Reimplemented for internal reasons; the API is not affected.
.SH "void QDragMoveEvent::ignore ( const QRect & r )"
The opposite of accept(const QRect&).
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/qdragmoveevent.html
.BR http://www.trolltech.com/faq/tech.html
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1992-2001 Trolltech AS, http://www.trolltech.com.  See the
license file included in the distribution for a complete license
statement.
.SH AUTHOR
Generated automatically from the source code.
.SH BUGS
If you find a bug in Qt, please report it as described in
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/bughowto.html .
Good bug reports make our job much simpler. Thank you.
.P
In case of content or formattting problems with this manual page, please
report them to
.BR qt-bugs@trolltech.com .
Please include the name of the manual page (qdragmoveevent.3qt) and the Qt
version (2.3.2).
