'\" t
.TH QDropSite 3qt "29 October 2001" "Trolltech AS" \" -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright 1992-2001 Trolltech AS.  All rights reserved.  See the
.\" license file included in the distribution for a complete license
.\" statement.
.\"
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
QDropSite \- Provides nothing and does nothing
.br
.PP
\fC#include <qdropsite.h>\fR
.PP
.SS "Public Members"
.in +1c
.ti -1c
.BI "\fBQDropSite\fR ( QWidget * parent ) "
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual \fB~QDropSite\fR () "
.br
.in -1c
.SH DESCRIPTION
Provides nothing and does nothing.
.PP
This class exists only so that old code will not break. It does nothing. If your code uses it, you can safely delete it.
.PP
It was used in Qt 1.x to do some drag and drop; that has since been folded into QWidget.
.PP
For detailed information about drag-and-drop, see the QDragObject class.
.PP
See also QDragObject, QTextDrag and QImageDrag.
.PP
Examples:
.(l
desktop/desktop.cpp
.)l
.SH MEMBER FUNCTION DOCUMENTATION
.SH "QDropSite::QDropSite ( QWidget * self )"
Constructs a QDropSite to handle events for the widget \fIself.\fR
.PP
Pass \fCthis\fR as the \fIparent\fR parameter. This enables dropping by calling QWidget::setAcceptDrops(TRUE).
.SH "QDropSite::~QDropSite () \fC[virtual]\fR"
Destructs the drop site.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/qdropsite.html
.BR http://www.trolltech.com/faq/tech.html
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1992-2001 Trolltech AS, http://www.trolltech.com.  See the
license file included in the distribution for a complete license
statement.
.SH AUTHOR
Generated automatically from the source code.
.SH BUGS
If you find a bug in Qt, please report it as described in
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/bughowto.html .
Good bug reports make our job much simpler. Thank you.
.P
In case of content or formattting problems with this manual page, please
report them to
.BR qt-bugs@trolltech.com .
Please include the name of the manual page (qdropsite.3qt) and the Qt
version (2.3.2).
