'\" t
.TH QFileIconProvider 3qt "29 October 2001" "Trolltech AS" \" -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright 1992-2001 Trolltech AS.  All rights reserved.  See the
.\" license file included in the distribution for a complete license
.\" statement.
.\"
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
QFileIconProvider \- Icons for
.br
.PP
\fC#include <qfiledialog.h>\fR
.PP
Inherits QObject.
.PP
.SS "Public Members"
.in +1c
.ti -1c
.BI "\fBQFileIconProvider\fR ( QObject * " "parent" " = 0, const char * " "name" " = 0 ) "
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual const QPixmap* \fBpixmap\fR ( const QFileInfo & ) "
.br
.in -1c
.SH DESCRIPTION
The QFileIconProvider class provides icons for QFileDialog to use.
.PP
By default, QFileIconProvider is not used, but any application or library can subclass it, reimplement pixmap() to return a suitable icon, and make all QFileDialog objects use it by calling the static function QFileDialog::setIconProvider().
.PP
It's advisable to make all the icons QFileIconProvider returns be of the same size, or at least the same width. This makes the list view look much better.
.PP
See also QFileDialog.
.SH MEMBER FUNCTION DOCUMENTATION
.SH "QFileIconProvider::QFileIconProvider ( QObject * parent = 0, const char * name = 0 )"
Constructs an empty file icon provider.
.SH "const QPixmap * QFileIconProvider::pixmap ( const QFileInfo & info ) \fC[virtual]\fR"
Returns a pointer to a pixmap which should be used for visualizing the file with the information \fIinfo.\fR
.PP
If pixmap() returns 0, QFileDialog draws the default pixmap.
.PP
The default implementation returns particular icons for files, directories, link-files, link-directories, and blank for other types.
.PP
If you return a pixmap here, it should be of the size 16x16.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/qfileiconprovider.html
.BR http://www.trolltech.com/faq/tech.html
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1992-2001 Trolltech AS, http://www.trolltech.com.  See the
license file included in the distribution for a complete license
statement.
.SH AUTHOR
Generated automatically from the source code.
.SH BUGS
If you find a bug in Qt, please report it as described in
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/bughowto.html .
Good bug reports make our job much simpler. Thank you.
.P
In case of content or formattting problems with this manual page, please
report them to
.BR qt-bugs@trolltech.com .
Please include the name of the manual page (qfileiconprovider.3qt) and the Qt
version (2.3.2).
