'\" t
.TH QFontInfo 3qt "29 October 2001" "Trolltech AS" \" -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright 1992-2001 Trolltech AS.  All rights reserved.  See the
.\" license file included in the distribution for a complete license
.\" statement.
.\"
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
QFontInfo \- General information about fonts
.br
.PP
\fC#include <qfontinfo.h>\fR
.PP
.SS "Public Members"
.in +1c
.ti -1c
.BI "\fBQFontInfo\fR ( const QFont & ) "
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "\fBQFontInfo\fR ( const QFontInfo & ) "
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "\fB~QFontInfo\fR () "
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "QFontInfo& \fBoperator=\fR ( const QFontInfo & ) "
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "QString \fBfamily\fR () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "int \fBpointSize\fR () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "bool \fBitalic\fR () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "int \fBweight\fR () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "bool \fBbold\fR () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "bool \fBunderline\fR () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "bool \fBstrikeOut\fR () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "bool \fBfixedPitch\fR () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "QFont::StyleHint \fBstyleHint\fR () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "QFont::CharSet \fBcharSet\fR () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "bool \fBrawMode\fR () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "bool \fBexactMatch\fR () const"
.br
.in -1c
.SH DESCRIPTION
The QFontInfo class provides general information about fonts.
.PP
The QFontInfo class mirrors QFont exactly, but where QFont access functions return set values, QFontInfo returns the values that apply to the font in use.
.PP
For example, when the program asks for a 25pt Courier font on a machine that has a 24pt Courier font but not a scalable one, QFont will (normally) use the 24pt Courier for rendering. In this case, QFont::pointSize() returns 25 and QFontInfo::pointSize() 24.
.PP
The access functions in QFontInfo mirror QFont exactly, except for this difference.
.PP
There are three ways to create a QFontInfo object.
.PP
The QFontInfo constructor with a QFont creates a font info object for a screen-compatible font, i.e. the font can not be a printer font.
.PP
QWidget::fontInfo() returns the font info for a widget's font. This is equivalent to QFontInfo(widget->font()). Setting a new font for the widget later does not affect the font info object.
.PP
QPainter::fontInfo() returns the font info for a painter's current font. The font info object is automatically updated if somebody sets a new painter font, unlike the two above cases, which take a" snapshot" of a font.
.PP
See also QFont and QFontMetrics.
.SH MEMBER FUNCTION DOCUMENTATION
.SH "QFontInfo::QFontInfo ( const QFont & font )"
Constructs a font info object for \fIfont.\fR
.PP
The font must be screen-compatible, i.e. a font you use when drawing text in widgets or pixmaps. If \fIfont\fR is a printer font, you'll probably get wrong results.
.PP
Use the QPainter::fontInfo() to get the font info when painting. This is a little slower than using this constructor, but it always gives correct results.
.SH "QFontInfo::QFontInfo ( const QFontInfo & fi )"
Constructs a copy of \fIfi.\fR
.SH "QFontInfo::~QFontInfo ()"
Destructs the font info object.
.SH "bool QFontInfo::bold () const"
Returns TRUE if weight() would return a greater than \fCQFont::Normal,\fR and FALSE otherwise.
.PP
See also weight() and QFont::bold().
.SH "QFont::CharSet QFontInfo::charSet() const"
Returns the character set of the matched window system font.
.PP
See also QFont::charSet().
.SH "bool QFontInfo::exactMatch () const"
Returns TRUE if the matched window system font is exactly the one specified by the font.
.PP
See also QFont::exactMatch().
.SH "QString QFontInfo::family () const"
Returns the family name of the matched window system font.
.PP
See also QFont::family().
.SH "bool QFontInfo::fixedPitch () const"
Returns the fixed pitch value of the matched window system font. A fixed pitch font is a font that has constant character pixel width.
.PP
See also QFont::fixedPitch().
.SH "bool QFontInfo::italic () const"
Returns the italic value of the matched window system font.
.PP
See also QFont::italic().
.SH "QFontInfo & QFontInfo::operator= ( const QFontInfo & fi )"
Font info assignment.
.SH "int QFontInfo::pointSize () const"
Returns the point size of the matched window system font.
.PP
See also QFont::pointSize().
.SH "bool QFontInfo::rawMode () const"
Returns TRUE if the font is a raw mode font.
.PP
If it is a raw mode font, all other functions in QFontInfo will return the same values set in the QFont, regardless of the font actually used.
.PP
See also QFont::rawMode().
.SH "bool QFontInfo::strikeOut () const"
Returns the strike out value of the matched window system font.
.PP
See also QFont::strikeOut().
.SH "QFont::StyleHint QFontInfo::styleHint() const"
Returns the style of the matched window system font.
.PP
Currently only returns the hint set in QFont.
.PP
See also QFont::styleHint().
.SH "bool QFontInfo::underline () const"
Returns the underline value of the matched window system font.
.PP
See also QFont::underline().
.SH "int QFontInfo::weight () const"
Returns the weight of the matched window system font.
.PP
See also  QFont::weight() and bold().
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/qfontinfo.html
.BR http://www.trolltech.com/faq/tech.html
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1992-2001 Trolltech AS, http://www.trolltech.com.  See the
license file included in the distribution for a complete license
statement.
.SH AUTHOR
Generated automatically from the source code.
.SH BUGS
If you find a bug in Qt, please report it as described in
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/bughowto.html .
Good bug reports make our job much simpler. Thank you.
.P
In case of content or formattting problems with this manual page, please
report them to
.BR qt-bugs@trolltech.com .
Please include the name of the manual page (qfontinfo.3qt) and the Qt
version (2.3.2).
