'\" t
.TH QGL 3qt "29 October 2001" "Trolltech AS" \" -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright 1992-2001 Trolltech AS.  All rights reserved.  See the
.\" license file included in the distribution for a complete license
.\" statement.
.\"
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
QGL \- Namespace for miscellaneous identifiers in the Qt OpenGL module
.br
.PP
\fC#include <qgl.h>\fR
.PP
Inherited by QGLContext, QGLFormat and QGLWidget.
.PP
.SS "Public Members"
.in +1c
.ti -1c
.BI "enum \fBFormatOption\fR { DoubleBuffer = 0x0001, DepthBuffer = 0x0002, Rgba = 0x0004, AlphaChannel = 0x0008, AccumBuffer = 0x0010, StencilBuffer = 0x0020, StereoBuffers = 0x0040, DirectRendering = 0x0080, HasOverlay = 0x0100, SingleBuffer = DoubleBuffer << 16, NoDepthBuffer = DepthBuffer << 16, ColorIndex = Rgba << 16, NoAlphaChannel = AlphaChannel << 16, NoAccumBuffer = AccumBuffer << 16, NoStencilBuffer = StencilBuffer << 16, NoStereoBuffers = StereoBuffers << 16, IndirectRendering = DirectRendering << 16, NoOverlay = HasOverlay << 16 }"
.br
.in -1c
.SH DESCRIPTION
The QGL class is a namespace for miscellaneous identifiers in the Qt OpenGL module.
.PP
Normally, you can ignore this class. QGLWidget and the other OpenGL module classes inherit it, so when you make your own QGLWidget subclass, you can use the identifiers in the QGL namespace without qualification.
.PP
However, occasionally you may find yourself in situations where you
need ot refer to these identifiers from outside the QGL namespace
scope, e.g. in static utility functions. In such cases, simply write
e.g. \fCQGL::DoubleBuffer\fR instead just \fCDoubleBuffer.\fR
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/qgl.html
.BR http://www.trolltech.com/faq/tech.html
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1992-2001 Trolltech AS, http://www.trolltech.com.  See the
license file included in the distribution for a complete license
statement.
.SH AUTHOR
Generated automatically from the source code.
.SH BUGS
If you find a bug in Qt, please report it as described in
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/bughowto.html .
Good bug reports make our job much simpler. Thank you.
.P
In case of content or formattting problems with this manual page, please
report them to
.BR qt-bugs@trolltech.com .
Please include the name of the manual page (qgl.3qt) and the Qt
version (2.3.2).
