'\" t
.TH QGrid 3qt "29 October 2001" "Trolltech AS" \" -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright 1992-2001 Trolltech AS.  All rights reserved.  See the
.\" license file included in the distribution for a complete license
.\" statement.
.\"
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
QGrid \- Performs geometry management on its children
.br
.PP
\fC#include <qgrid.h>\fR
.PP
Inherits QFrame.
.PP
.SS "Public Members"
.in +1c
.ti -1c
.BI "enum \fBDirection\fR { Horizontal, Vertical }"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "\fBQGrid\fR ( int " "n" ", QWidget * " "parent" "=0, const char * " "name" "=0, WFlags " "f" "=0 ) "
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "\fBQGrid\fR ( int " "n" ", Direction, QWidget * " "parent" "=0, const char * " "name" "=0, WFlags " "f" "=0 ) "
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "void \fBsetSpacing\fR ( int ) "
.br
.in -1c
.SH DESCRIPTION
The QGrid widget performs geometry management on its children
.PP
The number of rows or columns is defined in the constructor. All its children will be placed and sized according to their sizeHint() and sizePolicy() return values.
.PP
Use setMargin() to add space around the edge, and use setSpacing() to add space between the widgets.
.PP
.ce 1
.B "[Image Omitted]"
.PP
For more general control over grid layout, including multi-column and multi-row widgets, use the QGridLayout class directly.
.PP
See also QVBox and QHBox.
.PP
Examples:
.(l
xml/tagreader
.)l-with-features/tagreader.cpp
.SH MEMBER FUNCTION DOCUMENTATION
.SH "QGrid::QGrid ( int n, QWidget * parent=0, const char * name=0, WFlags f=0 )"
Constructs a grid widget with parent \fIparent\fR and name \fIname. n\fR specifies the number of columns.
.SH "QGrid::QGrid ( int n, Direction dir, QWidget * parent=0, const char * name=0, WFlags f=0 )"
Constructs a grid widget with parent \fIparent\fR and name \fIname.\fR If \fIdir\fR is \fCHorizontal,\fR \fIn\fR specifies the number of columns. If \fIdir\fR is \fCVertical,\fR \fIn\fR specifies the number of rows.
.SH "void QGrid::frameChanged () \fC[virtual protected]\fR"
Reimplemented for internal reasons; the API is not affected.
.PP
Reimplemented from QFrame.
.SH "void QGrid::setSpacing ( int space )"
Sets the spacing between children to \fIspace.\fR
.SH "QSize QGrid::sizeHint () const \fC[virtual]\fR"
Reimplemented for internal reasons; the API is not affected.
.PP
Reimplemented from QWidget.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/qgrid.html
.BR http://www.trolltech.com/faq/tech.html
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1992-2001 Trolltech AS, http://www.trolltech.com.  See the
license file included in the distribution for a complete license
statement.
.SH AUTHOR
Generated automatically from the source code.
.SH BUGS
If you find a bug in Qt, please report it as described in
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/bughowto.html .
Good bug reports make our job much simpler. Thank you.
.P
In case of content or formattting problems with this manual page, please
report them to
.BR qt-bugs@trolltech.com .
Please include the name of the manual page (qgrid.3qt) and the Qt
version (2.3.2).
