'\" t
.TH QHBoxLayout 3qt "29 October 2001" "Trolltech AS" \" -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright 1992-2001 Trolltech AS.  All rights reserved.  See the
.\" license file included in the distribution for a complete license
.\" statement.
.\"
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
QHBoxLayout \- Lines up widgets horizontally
.br
.PP
\fC#include <qlayout.h>\fR
.PP
Inherits QBoxLayout.
.PP
.SS "Public Members"
.in +1c
.ti -1c
.BI "\fBQHBoxLayout\fR ( QWidget * " "parent" ", int " "border" "=0, int " "space" " = -1, const char * " "name" "=0 ) "
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "\fBQHBoxLayout\fR ( QLayout * " "parentLayout" ", int " "space" " = -1, const char * " "name" "=0 ) "
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "\fBQHBoxLayout\fR ( int " "space" " = -1, const char * " "name" "=0 ) "
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "\fB~QHBoxLayout\fR () "
.br
.in -1c
.SH DESCRIPTION
The QHBoxLayout class lines up widgets horizontally.
.PP
This class provides an easier way to construct horizontal box layout objects. See QBoxLayout for more details.
.PP
The simplest ways to use this class are:
.PP
.nf
.br
     QBoxLayout * l = new QHBoxLayout( widget );
.br
     l->setAutoAdd( TRUE );
.br
     new QSomeWidget( widget );
.br
     new QSomeOtherWidget( widget );
.br
     new QAnotherWidget( widget );
.fi
.PP
or
.PP
.nf
.br
     QBoxLayout * l = new QHBoxLayout( widget );
.br
     l->addWidget( existingChildOfWidget );
.br
     l->addWidget( anotherChildOfWidget );
.fi
.PP
See also QVBoxLayout, QGridLayout and Layout overview documentation
.PP
Examples:
.(l
layout/layout.cpp popup/popup.cpp
.)l
.SH MEMBER FUNCTION DOCUMENTATION
.SH "QHBoxLayout::QHBoxLayout ( QLayout * parentLayout, int space = -1, const char * name=0 )"
Constructs a new horizontal box and adds it to \fIparentLayout.\fR
.SH "QHBoxLayout::QHBoxLayout ( QWidget * parent, int border=0, int space = -1, const char * name=0 )"
Constructs a new top-level horizontal box.
.SH "QHBoxLayout::QHBoxLayout ( int space = -1, const char * name=0 )"
Constructs a new horizontal box. You have to add it to another layout.
.SH "QHBoxLayout::~QHBoxLayout ()"
Destructs this box.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/qhboxlayout.html
.BR http://www.trolltech.com/faq/tech.html
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1992-2001 Trolltech AS, http://www.trolltech.com.  See the
license file included in the distribution for a complete license
statement.
.SH AUTHOR
Generated automatically from the source code.
.SH BUGS
If you find a bug in Qt, please report it as described in
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/bughowto.html .
Good bug reports make our job much simpler. Thank you.
.P
In case of content or formattting problems with this manual page, please
report them to
.BR qt-bugs@trolltech.com .
Please include the name of the manual page (qhboxlayout.3qt) and the Qt
version (2.3.2).
