'\" t
.TH QHBox 3qt "29 October 2001" "Trolltech AS" \" -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright 1992-2001 Trolltech AS.  All rights reserved.  See the
.\" license file included in the distribution for a complete license
.\" statement.
.\"
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
QHBox \- Performs geometry management on its children
.br
.PP
\fC#include <qhbox.h>\fR
.PP
Inherits QFrame.
.PP
Inherited by QVBox.
.PP
.SS "Public Members"
.in +1c
.ti -1c
.BI "\fBQHBox\fR ( QWidget * " "parent" "=0, const char * " "name" "=0, WFlags " "f" "=0, bool " "allowLines" "=TRUE ) "
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "void \fBsetSpacing\fR ( int ) "
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "bool \fBsetStretchFactor\fR ( QWidget *, int stretch ) "
.br
.in -1c
.SS "Protected Members"
.in +1c
.ti -1c
.BI "\fBQHBox\fR ( bool " "horizontal" ", QWidget * " "parent" "=0, const char * " "name" "=0, WFlags " "f" "=0, bool " "allowLines" "=TRUE ) "
.br
.in -1c
.SH DESCRIPTION
The QHBox widget performs geometry management on its children
.PP
All its children will be placed beside each other and sized according to their sizeHint()s.
.PP
Use setMargin() to add space around the edge, and use setSpacing() to add space between the widgets.
.PP
.ce 1
.B "[Image Omitted]"
.PP
See also QVBox and QGrid.
.PP
Examples:
.(l
xform/xform.cpp i18n/main.cpp
.)l
.SH MEMBER FUNCTION DOCUMENTATION
.SH "QHBox::QHBox ( QWidget * parent=0, const char * name=0, WFlags f=0, bool allowLines=TRUE )"
Constructs an hbox widget with parent \fIparent\fR and name \fIname\fR
.SH "QHBox::QHBox ( bool horizontal, QWidget * parent=0, const char * name=0, WFlags f=0, bool allowLines=TRUE ) \fC[protected]\fR"
Constructs a horizontal hbox if \fIhorizontal\fR is TRUE, otherwise constructs a vertical hbox (also known as a vbox).
.PP
This constructor is provided for the QVBox class. You should never need to use it directly.
.SH "void QHBox::frameChanged () \fC[virtual protected]\fR"
Reimplemented for internal reasons; the API is not affected.
.PP
Reimplemented from QFrame.
.SH "void QHBox::setSpacing ( int space )"
Sets the spacing between children to \fIspace.\fR
.PP
Examples:
.(l
xform/xform.cpp
.)l
.SH "bool QHBox::setStretchFactor ( QWidget * w, int stretch )"
Sets the stretch factor of \fIw\fR to \fIstretch.\fR
.PP
See also QBoxLayout::setStretchFactor().
.PP
Examples:
.(l
xform/xform.cpp
.)l
.SH "QSize QHBox::sizeHint () const \fC[virtual]\fR"
Reimplemented for internal reasons; the API is not affected.
.PP
Reimplemented from QWidget.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/qhbox.html
.BR http://www.trolltech.com/faq/tech.html
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1992-2001 Trolltech AS, http://www.trolltech.com.  See the
license file included in the distribution for a complete license
statement.
.SH AUTHOR
Generated automatically from the source code.
.SH BUGS
If you find a bug in Qt, please report it as described in
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/bughowto.html .
Good bug reports make our job much simpler. Thank you.
.P
In case of content or formattting problems with this manual page, please
report them to
.BR qt-bugs@trolltech.com .
Please include the name of the manual page (qhbox.3qt) and the Qt
version (2.3.2).
