'\" t
.TH QHideEvent 3qt "29 October 2001" "Trolltech AS" \" -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright 1992-2001 Trolltech AS.  All rights reserved.  See the
.\" license file included in the distribution for a complete license
.\" statement.
.\"
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
QHideEvent \- The event sent after a widget is hidden
.br
.PP
\fC#include <qevent.h>\fR
.PP
Inherits QEvent.
.PP
.SS "Public Members"
.in +1c
.ti -1c
.BI "\fBQHideEvent\fR ( bool spontaneous ) "
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "bool \fBspontaneous\fR () const"
.br
.in -1c
.SH DESCRIPTION
The event sent after a widget is hidden.
.PP
This event is sent just before QWidget::hide() returns, and also when a top-level window has been hidden (iconified) by the user.
.PP
See also QShowEvent.
.SH MEMBER FUNCTION DOCUMENTATION
.SH "QHideEvent::QHideEvent ( bool spontaneous )"
Constructs a QHideEvent. \fIspontaneous\fR is TRUE if the event originated outside the application - ie. the user hid the window via the window manager controls.
.SH "bool QHideEvent::spontaneous () const"
Returns TRUE if the event originated outside the application -
ie. the user hid the window via the window manager controls, either
by iconifying the window or by switching to another virtual desktop where
the window isn't visible. The window will become hidden, but not withdrawn.
If the window was iconified, QWidget::isMinimized() is TRUE.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/qhideevent.html
.BR http://www.trolltech.com/faq/tech.html
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1992-2001 Trolltech AS, http://www.trolltech.com.  See the
license file included in the distribution for a complete license
statement.
.SH AUTHOR
Generated automatically from the source code.
.SH BUGS
If you find a bug in Qt, please report it as described in
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/bughowto.html .
Good bug reports make our job much simpler. Thank you.
.P
In case of content or formattting problems with this manual page, please
report them to
.BR qt-bugs@trolltech.com .
Please include the name of the manual page (qhideevent.3qt) and the Qt
version (2.3.2).
