'\" t
.TH QHostAddress 3qt "29 October 2001" "Trolltech AS" \" -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright 1992-2001 Trolltech AS.  All rights reserved.  See the
.\" license file included in the distribution for a complete license
.\" statement.
.\"
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
QHostAddress \- IP address
.br
.PP
\fC#include <qhostaddress.h>\fR
.PP
.SS "Public Members"
.in +1c
.ti -1c
.BI "\fBQHostAddress\fR () "
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "\fBQHostAddress\fR ( Q_UINT32 ip4Addr ) "
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "\fBQHostAddress\fR ( Q_UINT8 * ip6Addr ) "
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "\fBQHostAddress\fR ( const QHostAddress & ) "
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual \fB~QHostAddress\fR () "
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "QHostAddress& \fBoperator=\fR ( const QHostAddress & ) "
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "void \fBsetAddress\fR ( Q_UINT32 ip4Addr ) "
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "void \fBsetAddress\fR ( Q_UINT8 * ip6Addr ) "
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "bool \fBsetAddress\fR ( const QString & address ) "
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "bool \fBisIp4Addr\fR () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "Q_UINT32 \fBip4Addr\fR () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "QString \fBtoString\fR () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "bool \fBoperator==\fR ( const QHostAddress & ) const"
.br
.in -1c
.SH DESCRIPTION
The QHostAddress class provides an IP address.
.PP
This class contains an IP address in a platform- and protocol-independent manner. That is, it'll store the address in a way you can access easily on any platform, and it'll store both IPv4 and IPv6 addresses.
.PP
QHostAddress is normally used with the classes QSocket, QServerSocket and QSocketDevice to set up a server or to connect to a host.
.PP
See also QSocket, QServerSocket and QSocketDevice.
.SH MEMBER FUNCTION DOCUMENTATION
.SH "QHostAddress::QHostAddress ()"
Creates a socket address object with the IP address 0.0.0.0.
.SH "QHostAddress::QHostAddress ( Q_UINT32 ip4Addr )"
Creates a socket address object with a specified IPv4 address.
.SH "QHostAddress::QHostAddress ( Q_UINT8 * ip6Addr )"
Creates a socket address object with a specified IPv6 address.
.PP
\fIip6Addr\fR must be a 16 byte array in network byte order (high-order byte first).
.SH "QHostAddress::QHostAddress ( const QHostAddress & address )"
Creates a copy of \fIaddress.\fR
.SH "QHostAddress::~QHostAddress () \fC[virtual]\fR"
Destructs the socket address object.
.SH "Q_UINT32 QHostAddress::ip4Addr () const"
Returns the IPv4 address as a number.
.PP
For example, if the address is 127.0.0.1, the returned value is 2130706433 (hex: 7f000001).
.PP
This value is only valid when isIp4Addr() returns TRUE.
.PP
See also toString().
.SH "bool QHostAddress::isIp4Addr () const"
Return true if the host address represents a IPv4 address.
.SH "QHostAddress & QHostAddress::operator= ( const QHostAddress & address )"
Assigns another socket address object \fIaddress\fR to this object and returns a reference to this object.
.SH "bool QHostAddress::operator== ( const QHostAddress & other ) const"
Returns TRUE if this socket address is identical to \fIother,\fR or FALSE if they are different.
.SH "bool QHostAddress::setAddress ( const QString & address )"
Sets the IPv4 or IPv6 address specified by the string representation \fIaddress\fR (e.g. "127.0.0.1").
.PP
If this function is not able to parse the address it will return FALSE and the address is not changed.
.SH "void QHostAddress::setAddress ( Q_UINT32 ip4Addr )"
Set a IPv4 address specified by \fIip4Addr.\fR
.SH "void QHostAddress::setAddress ( Q_UINT8 * ip6Addr )"
Set a IPv6 address specified by \fIip6Addr.\fR
.PP
\fIip6Addr\fR must be a 16 byte array in network byte order (high-order byte first).
.SH "QString QHostAddress::toString () const"
Returns the address as a string.
.PP
For example, if the address is the IPv4 address 127.0.0.1, the returned string is "127.0.0.1".
.PP
See also  ip4Addr().
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/qhostaddress.html
.BR http://www.trolltech.com/faq/tech.html
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1992-2001 Trolltech AS, http://www.trolltech.com.  See the
license file included in the distribution for a complete license
statement.
.SH AUTHOR
Generated automatically from the source code.
.SH BUGS
If you find a bug in Qt, please report it as described in
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/bughowto.html .
Good bug reports make our job much simpler. Thank you.
.P
In case of content or formattting problems with this manual page, please
report them to
.BR qt-bugs@trolltech.com .
Please include the name of the manual page (qhostaddress.3qt) and the Qt
version (2.3.2).
