'\" t
.TH QIconDragItem 3qt "29 October 2001" "Trolltech AS" \" -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright 1992-2001 Trolltech AS.  All rights reserved.  See the
.\" license file included in the distribution for a complete license
.\" statement.
.\"
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
QIconDragItem \- The internal data structure of a
.br
.PP
\fC#include <qiconview.h>\fR
.PP
.SS "Public Members"
.in +1c
.ti -1c
.BI "\fBQIconDragItem\fR () "
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual \fB~QIconDragItem\fR () "
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual QByteArray \fBdata\fR () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual void \fBsetData\fR ( const QByteArray & d ) "
.br
.in -1c
.SH DESCRIPTION
The QIconDragItem class is the internal data structure of a QIconDrag
.PP
This class is used internally in the QIconDrag to store the data of each item (in fact, a list of QIconDragItems is used by QIconDrag).
.PP
So, normally for each iconview item which is dragged, a QIconDragItem class (or a class derived from QIconDragItem) is created and stored in the QIconDrag object.
.PP
See QIconView::dragObject() for more information.
.PP
An example, how to implement this, is in the QtFileIconView example. (qt/examples/qfileiconview/qfileiconview.h and qt/examples/qfileiconview/qfileiconview.cpp).
.PP
Examples:
.(l
iconview/main.cpp
.)l
.SH MEMBER FUNCTION DOCUMENTATION
.SH "QIconDragItem::QIconDragItem ()"
Constructs a QIconDragItem with no data.
.SH "QIconDragItem::~QIconDragItem () \fC[virtual]\fR"
Destructor.
.SH "QByteArray QIconDragItem::data () const \fC[virtual]\fR"
Returns the data of this QIconDragItem.
.SH "bool QIconDragItem::operator== ( const QIconDragItem & i ) const"
Reimplemented for internal reasons; the API is not affected.
.SH "void QIconDragItem::setData ( const QByteArray & d ) \fC[virtual]\fR"
Sets the data of this QIconDragItem.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/qicondragitem.html
.BR http://www.trolltech.com/faq/tech.html
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1992-2001 Trolltech AS, http://www.trolltech.com.  See the
license file included in the distribution for a complete license
statement.
.SH AUTHOR
Generated automatically from the source code.
.SH BUGS
If you find a bug in Qt, please report it as described in
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/bughowto.html .
Good bug reports make our job much simpler. Thank you.
.P
In case of content or formattting problems with this manual page, please
report them to
.BR qt-bugs@trolltech.com .
Please include the name of the manual page (qicondragitem.3qt) and the Qt
version (2.3.2).
