'\" t
.TH QImageDrag 3qt "29 October 2001" "Trolltech AS" \" -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright 1992-2001 Trolltech AS.  All rights reserved.  See the
.\" license file included in the distribution for a complete license
.\" statement.
.\"
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
QImageDrag \- Drag-and-drop object for transferring images
.br
.PP
\fC#include <qdragobject.h>\fR
.PP
Inherits QDragObject.
.PP
.SS "Public Members"
.in +1c
.ti -1c
.BI "\fBQImageDrag\fR ( QImage " "image" ", QWidget * " "dragSource" " = 0, const char * " "name" " = 0 ) "
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "\fBQImageDrag\fR ( QWidget * " "dragSource" " = 0, const char * " "name" " = 0 ) "
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "\fB~QImageDrag\fR () "
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual void \fBsetImage\fR ( QImage image ) "
.br
.in -1c
.SS "Static Public Members"
.in +1c
.ti -1c
.BI "bool \fBcanDecode\fR ( const QMimeSource * e ) "
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "bool \fBdecode\fR ( const QMimeSource * " "e" ", QImage & i ) "
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "bool \fBdecode\fR ( const QMimeSource * " "e" ", QPixmap & i ) "
.br
.in -1c
.SH DESCRIPTION
The QImageDrag class provides a drag-and-drop object for transferring images.
.PP
Images are offered to the receiving application in multiple formats, determined by the output formats in Qt.
.PP
For detailed information about drag-and-drop, see the QDragObject class.
.SH MEMBER FUNCTION DOCUMENTATION
.SH "QImageDrag::QImageDrag ( QImage image, QWidget * dragSource = 0, const char * name = 0 )"
Constructs an image drag object and sets it to \fIimage. dragSource\fR must be the drag source, \fIname\fR is the object name.
.SH "QImageDrag::QImageDrag ( QWidget * dragSource = 0, const char * name = 0 )"
Constructs a default text drag object. \fIdragSource\fR must be the drag source, \fIname\fR is the object name.
.SH "QImageDrag::~QImageDrag ()"
Destructs the image drag object and frees up all allocated resources.
.SH "bool QImageDrag::canDecode ( const QMimeSource * e ) \fC[static]\fR"
Returns TRUE if the information in \fIe\fR can be decoded into an image.
.PP
See also decode().
.PP
Examples:
.(l
desktop/desktop.cpp
.)l
.SH "bool QImageDrag::decode ( const QMimeSource * e, QImage & img ) \fC[static]\fR"
Attempts to decode the dropped information in \fIe\fR into \fIimg,\fR returning TRUE if successful.
.PP
See also canDecode().
.SH "bool QImageDrag::decode ( const QMimeSource * e, QPixmap & pm ) \fC[static]\fR"
Attempts to decode the dropped information in \fIe\fR into \fIpm,\fR returning TRUE if successful.
.PP
This is a convenience function that converts to \fIpm\fR via a QImage.
.PP
See also canDecode().
.PP
Examples:
.(l
desktop/desktop.cpp
.)l
.SH "QByteArray QImageDrag::encodedData ( const char * fmt ) const \fC[virtual]\fR"
Reimplemented for internal reasons; the API is not affected.
.SH "const char * QImageDrag::format ( int i ) const \fC[virtual]\fR"
Reimplemented for internal reasons; the API is not affected.
.PP
Reimplemented from QMimeSource.
.SH "void QImageDrag::setImage ( QImage image ) \fC[virtual]\fR"
Sets the image to be dragged.  You will need to call this if you did
not pass the image during construction.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/qimagedrag.html
.BR http://www.trolltech.com/faq/tech.html
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1992-2001 Trolltech AS, http://www.trolltech.com.  See the
license file included in the distribution for a complete license
statement.
.SH AUTHOR
Generated automatically from the source code.
.SH BUGS
If you find a bug in Qt, please report it as described in
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/bughowto.html .
Good bug reports make our job much simpler. Thank you.
.P
In case of content or formattting problems with this manual page, please
report them to
.BR qt-bugs@trolltech.com .
Please include the name of the manual page (qimagedrag.3qt) and the Qt
version (2.3.2).
