'\" t
.TH QIODeviceSource 3qt "29 October 2001" "Trolltech AS" \" -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright 1992-2001 Trolltech AS.  All rights reserved.  See the
.\" license file included in the distribution for a complete license
.\" statement.
.\"
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
QIODeviceSource \- 
.br
.PP
\fC#include <qasyncio.h>\fR
.PP
Inherits QDataSource.
.PP
.SS "Public Members"
.in +1c
.ti -1c
.BI "\fBQIODeviceSource\fR ( QIODevice *, int " "bufsize" "=4096 ) "
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "\fB~QIODeviceSource\fR () "
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual int \fBreadyToSend\fR () "
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual void \fBsendTo\fR ( QDataSink * " "sink" ", int n ) "
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual bool \fBrewindable\fR () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual void \fBenableRewind\fR ( bool on ) "
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual void \fBrewind\fR () "
.br
.in -1c
.SH DESCRIPTION
The QIODeviceSource class is a QDataSource that draws data from a QIODevice
.PP
This class encapsulates retrieving data from a QIODevice (such as a QFile).
.SH MEMBER FUNCTION DOCUMENTATION
.SH "QIODeviceSource::QIODeviceSource ( QIODevice * device, int buffer_size=4096 )"
Constructs a QIODeviceSource from a pointer to an QIODevice. The QIODevice \fImust\fR be dynamically allocated, becomes owned by the QIODeviceSource, and will be deleted when the QIODeviceSource destructs. \fIbuffer_size\fR determines the size of buffering to use between asynchronous operations. The higher \fIbuffer_size,\fR the more efficient but the less interleaved the operation will be with other processing.
.SH "QIODeviceSource::~QIODeviceSource ()"
Destructs the QIODeviceSource, deleting the QIODevice from which it was constructed.
.SH "void QIODeviceSource::enableRewind ( bool on ) \fC[virtual]\fR"
Enables rewinding. No special action is taken.
.PP
Reimplemented from QDataSource.
.SH "int QIODeviceSource::readyToSend () \fC[virtual]\fR"
Ready until end-of-file.
.PP
Reimplemented from QDataSource.
.SH "void QIODeviceSource::rewind () \fC[virtual]\fR"
Calls reset() on the QIODevice.
.PP
Reimplemented from QDataSource.
.SH "bool QIODeviceSource::rewindable () const \fC[virtual]\fR"
All QIODeviceSource's are rewindable.
.PP
Reimplemented from QDataSource.
.SH "void QIODeviceSource::sendTo ( QDataSink * sink, int n ) \fC[virtual]\fR"
Reads and sends a block of data.
.PP
Reimplemented from QDataSource.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/qiodevicesource.html
.BR http://www.trolltech.com/faq/tech.html
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1992-2001 Trolltech AS, http://www.trolltech.com.  See the
license file included in the distribution for a complete license
statement.
.SH AUTHOR
Generated automatically from the source code.
.SH BUGS
If you find a bug in Qt, please report it as described in
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/bughowto.html .
Good bug reports make our job much simpler. Thank you.
.P
In case of content or formattting problems with this manual page, please
report them to
.BR qt-bugs@trolltech.com .
Please include the name of the manual page (qiodevicesource.3qt) and the Qt
version (2.3.2).
