'\" t
.TH QListBoxText 3qt "29 October 2001" "Trolltech AS" \" -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright 1992-2001 Trolltech AS.  All rights reserved.  See the
.\" license file included in the distribution for a complete license
.\" statement.
.\"
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
QListBoxText \- List box items with text
.br
.PP
\fC#include <qlistbox.h>\fR
.PP
Inherits QListBoxItem.
.PP
.SS "Public Members"
.in +1c
.ti -1c
.BI "\fBQListBoxText\fR ( QListBox * " "listbox" ", const QString & text=QString::null ) "
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "\fBQListBoxText\fR ( const QString & text=QString::null ) "
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "\fBQListBoxText\fR ( QListBox * " "listbox" ", const QString & " "text" ", QListBoxItem * after ) "
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "\fB~QListBoxText\fR () "
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual int \fBheight\fR ( const QListBox * ) const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual int \fBwidth\fR ( const QListBox * ) const"
.br
.in -1c
.SS "Protected Members"
.in +1c
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual void \fBpaint\fR ( QPainter * ) "
.br
.in -1c
.SH DESCRIPTION
The QListBoxText class provides list box items with text.
.PP
The text is drawn in the widget's current font. If you need several different fonts, you have to make your own subclass of QListBoxItem.
.PP
See also QListBox and QListBoxItem.
.SH MEMBER FUNCTION DOCUMENTATION
.SH "QListBoxText::QListBoxText ( QListBox * listbox, const QString & text, QListBoxItem * after )"
Constructs a list box item in listbox \fIlisttbox\fR showing the text \fItext.\fR The item gets inserted after the item \fIafter.\fR
.SH "QListBoxText::QListBoxText ( QListBox * listbox, const QString & text=QString::null )"
Constructs a list box item in listbox \fIlisttbox\fR showing the text \fItext.\fR
.SH "QListBoxText::QListBoxText ( const QString & text=QString::null )"
Constructs a list box item showing the text \fItext.\fR
.SH "QListBoxText::~QListBoxText ()"
Destroys the item.
.SH "int QListBoxText::height ( const QListBox * lb ) const \fC[virtual]\fR"
Returns the height of a line of text.
.PP
See also paint() and width().
.PP
Reimplemented from QListBoxItem.
.SH "void QListBoxText::paint ( QPainter * painter ) \fC[virtual protected]\fR"
Draws the text using \fIpainter.\fR
.PP
Reimplemented from QListBoxItem.
.SH "int QListBoxText::width ( const QListBox * lb ) const \fC[virtual]\fR"
Returns the width of this line.
.PP
See also paint() and height().
.PP
Reimplemented from QListBoxItem.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/qlistboxtext.html
.BR http://www.trolltech.com/faq/tech.html
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1992-2001 Trolltech AS, http://www.trolltech.com.  See the
license file included in the distribution for a complete license
statement.
.SH AUTHOR
Generated automatically from the source code.
.SH BUGS
If you find a bug in Qt, please report it as described in
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/bughowto.html .
Good bug reports make our job much simpler. Thank you.
.P
In case of content or formattting problems with this manual page, please
report them to
.BR qt-bugs@trolltech.com .
Please include the name of the manual page (qlistboxtext.3qt) and the Qt
version (2.3.2).
