'\" t
.TH QListBoxPixmap 3qt "29 October 2001" "Trolltech AS" \" -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright 1992-2001 Trolltech AS.  All rights reserved.  See the
.\" license file included in the distribution for a complete license
.\" statement.
.\"
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
QListBoxPixmap \- List box items with a pixmap and an optional text
.br
.PP
\fC#include <qlistbox.h>\fR
.PP
Inherits QListBoxItem.
.PP
.SS "Public Members"
.in +1c
.ti -1c
.BI "\fBQListBoxPixmap\fR ( QListBox * " "listbox" ", const QPixmap & ) "
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "\fBQListBoxPixmap\fR ( const QPixmap & ) "
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "\fBQListBoxPixmap\fR ( QListBox * " "listbox" ", const QPixmap & " "pix" ", QListBoxItem * after ) "
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "\fBQListBoxPixmap\fR ( QListBox * " "listbox" ", const QPixmap &, const QString & ) "
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "\fBQListBoxPixmap\fR ( const QPixmap &, const QString & ) "
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "\fBQListBoxPixmap\fR ( QListBox * " "listbox" ", const QPixmap & " "pix" ", const QString &, QListBoxItem * after ) "
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "\fB~QListBoxPixmap\fR () "
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual const QPixmap* \fBpixmap\fR () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual int \fBheight\fR ( const QListBox * ) const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual int \fBwidth\fR ( const QListBox * ) const"
.br
.in -1c
.SS "Protected Members"
.in +1c
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual void \fBpaint\fR ( QPainter * ) "
.br
.in -1c
.SH DESCRIPTION
The QListBoxPixmap class provides list box items with a pixmap and an optional text.
.PP
See also QListBox and QListBoxItem.
.SH MEMBER FUNCTION DOCUMENTATION
.SH "QListBoxPixmap::QListBoxPixmap ( QListBox * listbox, const QPixmap & pix, const QString & text )"
Constructs a new list box item in listbox \fIlistbox\fR showing the pixmap \fIpixmap\fR and the text \fItext\fR
.SH "QListBoxPixmap::QListBoxPixmap ( QListBox * listbox, const QPixmap & pix, const QString & text, QListBoxItem * after )"
Constructs a new list box item in listbox \fIlistbox\fR showing the pixmap \fIpixmap\fR and the string \fItext\fR . The item gets inserted after the item \fIafter.\fR
.SH "QListBoxPixmap::QListBoxPixmap ( QListBox * listbox, const QPixmap & pixmap )"
Constructs a new list box item in listbox \fIlistbox\fR showing the pixmap \fIpixmap.\fR
.SH "QListBoxPixmap::QListBoxPixmap ( QListBox * listbox, const QPixmap & pixmap, QListBoxItem * after )"
Constructs a new list box item in listbox \fIlistbox\fR showing the pixmap \fIpixmap.\fR The item gets inserted after the item \fIafter.\fR
.SH "QListBoxPixmap::QListBoxPixmap ( const QPixmap & pix, const QString & text )"
Constructs a new list box item in listbox \fIlistbox\fR showing the pixmap \fIpixmap.\fR The item gets inserted after the item \fIafter.\fR
.SH "QListBoxPixmap::QListBoxPixmap ( const QPixmap & pixmap )"
Constructs a new list box item showing the pixmap \fIpixmap.\fR
.SH "QListBoxPixmap::~QListBoxPixmap ()"
Destroys the item.
.SH "int QListBoxPixmap::height ( const QListBox * lb ) const \fC[virtual]\fR"
Returns the height of the pixmap.
.PP
See also paint() and width().
.PP
Reimplemented from QListBoxItem.
.SH "void QListBoxPixmap::paint ( QPainter * painter ) \fC[virtual protected]\fR"
Draws the pixmap using \fIpainter.\fR
.PP
Reimplemented from QListBoxItem.
.SH "const QPixmap * QListBoxPixmap::pixmap () const \fC[virtual]\fR"
Returns the pixmap connected with the item.
.PP
Reimplemented from QListBoxItem.
.SH "int QListBoxPixmap::width ( const QListBox * lb ) const \fC[virtual]\fR"
Returns the width of the pixmap, plus some margin.
.PP
See also paint() and height().
.PP
Reimplemented from QListBoxItem.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/qlistboxpixmap.html
.BR http://www.trolltech.com/faq/tech.html
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1992-2001 Trolltech AS, http://www.trolltech.com.  See the
license file included in the distribution for a complete license
statement.
.SH AUTHOR
Generated automatically from the source code.
.SH BUGS
If you find a bug in Qt, please report it as described in
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/bughowto.html .
Good bug reports make our job much simpler. Thank you.
.P
In case of content or formattting problems with this manual page, please
report them to
.BR qt-bugs@trolltech.com .
Please include the name of the manual page (qlistboxpixmap.3qt) and the Qt
version (2.3.2).
