'\" t
.TH QLNode 3qt "29 October 2001" "Trolltech AS" \" -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright 1992-2001 Trolltech AS.  All rights reserved.  See the
.\" license file included in the distribution for a complete license
.\" statement.
.\"
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
QLNode \- Internal class for the
.br
.PP
\fC#include <qglist.h>\fR
.PP
.SS "Public Members"
.in +1c
.ti -1c
.BI "QCollection::Item \fBgetData\fR () "
.br
.in -1c
.SH DESCRIPTION
The QLNode class is an internal class for the QList template collection.
.PP
QLNode is a doubly linked list node; it has three pointers:
.IP 1
Pointer to the previous node.
.IP 2
Pointer to the next node.
.IP 3
Pointer to the actual data.
.PP
Sometimes it might be practical to have direct access to the list nodes in a QList, but it is seldom required.
.PP
\fBWarning:\fR Be very careful if you want to access the list nodes. The heap can easily get corrupted if you make a mistake.
.PP
See also QList::currentNode(), QList::removeNode() and QList::takeNode().
.SH MEMBER FUNCTION DOCUMENTATION
.SH "QCollection::Item QLNode::getData()"
Returns a pointer (\fCvoid*)\fR to the actual data in the list node.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/qlnode.html
.BR http://www.trolltech.com/faq/tech.html
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1992-2001 Trolltech AS, http://www.trolltech.com.  See the
license file included in the distribution for a complete license
statement.
.SH AUTHOR
Generated automatically from the source code.
.SH BUGS
If you find a bug in Qt, please report it as described in
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/bughowto.html .
Good bug reports make our job much simpler. Thank you.
.P
In case of content or formattting problems with this manual page, please
report them to
.BR qt-bugs@trolltech.com .
Please include the name of the manual page (qlnode.3qt) and the Qt
version (2.3.2).
