'\" t
.TH QLocalFs 3qt "29 October 2001" "Trolltech AS" \" -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright 1992-2001 Trolltech AS.  All rights reserved.  See the
.\" license file included in the distribution for a complete license
.\" statement.
.\"
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
QLocalFs \- Implementation of a
.br
.PP
\fC#include <qlocalfs.h>\fR
.PP
Inherits QNetworkProtocol.
.PP
.SS "Public Members"
.in +1c
.ti -1c
.BI "\fBQLocalFs\fR () "
.br
.in -1c
.SH DESCRIPTION
Implementation of a QNetworkProtocol which works on the local filesystem.
.PP
This class is a subclass of QNetworkProtocol and works on the local filesystem. If you want to write a network transparent application using QNetworkProtocol, QUrlOperator, etc. this class is used for accessing the local filesystem by QUrlOperator.
.PP
See also QUrlOperator and QNetworkProtocol.
.SH MEMBER FUNCTION DOCUMENTATION
.SH "QLocalFs::QLocalFs ()"
Constructor.
.SH "void QLocalFs::operationGet ( QNetworkOperation * op ) \fC[virtual protected]\fR"
Reimplemented for internal reasons; the API is not affected.
.SH "void QLocalFs::operationListChildren ( QNetworkOperation * op ) \fC[virtual protected]\fR"
Reimplemented for internal reasons; the API is not affected.
.SH "void QLocalFs::operationMkDir ( QNetworkOperation * op ) \fC[virtual protected]\fR"
Reimplemented for internal reasons; the API is not affected.
.SH "void QLocalFs::operationPut ( QNetworkOperation * op ) \fC[virtual protected]\fR"
Reimplemented for internal reasons; the API is not affected.
.SH "void QLocalFs::operationRemove ( QNetworkOperation * op ) \fC[virtual protected]\fR"
Reimplemented for internal reasons; the API is not affected.
.SH "void QLocalFs::operationRename ( QNetworkOperation * op ) \fC[virtual protected]\fR"
Reimplemented for internal reasons; the API is not affected.
.SH "int QLocalFs::supportedOperations () const \fC[virtual]\fR"
Reimplemented for internal reasons; the API is not affected.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/qlocalfs.html
.BR http://www.trolltech.com/faq/tech.html
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1992-2001 Trolltech AS, http://www.trolltech.com.  See the
license file included in the distribution for a complete license
statement.
.SH AUTHOR
Generated automatically from the source code.
.SH BUGS
If you find a bug in Qt, please report it as described in
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/bughowto.html .
Good bug reports make our job much simpler. Thank you.
.P
In case of content or formattting problems with this manual page, please
report them to
.BR qt-bugs@trolltech.com .
Please include the name of the manual page (qlocalfs.3qt) and the Qt
version (2.3.2).
