'\" t
.TH QMapConstIterator 3qt "29 October 2001" "Trolltech AS" \" -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright 1992-2001 Trolltech AS.  All rights reserved.  See the
.\" license file included in the distribution for a complete license
.\" statement.
.\"
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
QMapConstIterator \- Iterator for
.br
.PP
\fC#include <qmap.h>\fR
.PP
.SS "Public Members"
.in +1c
.ti -1c
.BI "\fBQMapConstIterator\fR () "
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "\fBQMapConstIterator\fR ( QMapNode<K, T> * p ) "
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "\fBQMapConstIterator\fR ( const QMapConstIterator<K,T> & it ) "
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "\fBQMapConstIterator\fR ( const QMapIterator<K,T> & it ) "
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "bool \fBoperator==\fR ( const QMapConstIterator<K,T> & it ) const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "bool \fBoperator!=\fR ( const QMapConstIterator<K,T> & it ) const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "const T& \fBoperator*\fR () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "const K& \fBkey\fR () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "const T& \fBdata\fR () const"
.br
.in -1c
.SH DESCRIPTION
The QMapConstIterator class provides an iterator for QMap.
.PP
In contrast to QMapIterator this class is used to iterate over a const map. It does not allow to modify the values of the map since this would break the const semantics.
.PP
For more informations on QMap iterators see QMapIterator.
.PP
See also QMap and QMapIterator.
.SH MEMBER FUNCTION DOCUMENTATION
.SH "QMapConstIterator::QMapConstIterator ()"
Constructs an uninitialized iterator.
.SH "QMapConstIterator::QMapConstIterator ( QMapNode<K, T> * p )"
Constructs an iterator starting at node \fIp.\fR
.SH "QMapConstIterator::QMapConstIterator ( const QMapIterator<K,T> & it )"
Constructs a copy of the iterator.
.SH "QMapConstIterator::QMapConstIterator ( const QMapConstIterator<K,T> & it )"
Constructs a copy of the iterator.
.SH "const T& QMapConstIterator::data () const"
Returns a const reference to the data of the current item.
.SH "const K& QMapConstIterator::key () const"
Returns a const reference to the current key.
.SH "bool QMapConstIterator::operator!= ( const QMapConstIterator<K,T> & it ) const"
Compares both iterators and returns TRUE if they point to different items.
.SH "const T& QMapConstIterator::operator* () const"
Asterix operator. Returns a const reference to the current item. The same as data().
.SH "bool QMapConstIterator::operator== ( const QMapConstIterator<K,T> & it ) const"
Compares both iterators and returns TRUE if they point to the same
item.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/qmapconstiterator.html
.BR http://www.trolltech.com/faq/tech.html
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1992-2001 Trolltech AS, http://www.trolltech.com.  See the
license file included in the distribution for a complete license
statement.
.SH AUTHOR
Generated automatically from the source code.
.SH BUGS
If you find a bug in Qt, please report it as described in
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/bughowto.html .
Good bug reports make our job much simpler. Thank you.
.P
In case of content or formattting problems with this manual page, please
report them to
.BR qt-bugs@trolltech.com .
Please include the name of the manual page (qmapconstiterator.3qt) and the Qt
version (2.3.2).
