'\" t
.TH QMimeSource 3qt "29 October 2001" "Trolltech AS" \" -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright 1992-2001 Trolltech AS.  All rights reserved.  See the
.\" license file included in the distribution for a complete license
.\" statement.
.\"
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
QMimeSource \- An abstract piece of formatted data
.br
.PP
\fC#include <qmime.h>\fR
.PP
Inherited by QDragObject and QDropEvent.
.PP
.SS "Public Members"
.in +1c
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual \fB~QMimeSource\fR () "
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual const char* \fBformat\fR ( int " "n" " = 0 ) const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual bool \fBprovides\fR ( const char * ) const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual QByteArray \fBencodedData\fR ( const char * ) const"
.br
.in -1c
.SH DESCRIPTION
An abstract piece of formatted data.
.PP
Drag-and-drop and clipboard use this abstraction.
.PP
See also IANA list of MIME media types
.SH MEMBER FUNCTION DOCUMENTATION
.SH "QMimeSource::~QMimeSource () \fC[virtual]\fR"
Provided to ensure subclasses destruct correctly.
.SH "QByteArray QMimeSource::encodedData ( const char * ) const \fC[virtual]\fR"
Returns the encoded payload of this object, in the specified MIME format.
.PP
Subclasses must reimplement this function.
.PP
Reimplemented in QDropEvent.
.SH "const char * QMimeSource::format ( int i = 0 ) const \fC[virtual]\fR"
Returns the \fIith\fR format, or NULL.
.PP
Reimplemented in QTextDrag, QStoredDrag, QDropEvent and QImageDrag.
.SH "bool QMimeSource::provides ( const char * mimeType ) const \fC[virtual]\fR"
Returns TRUE if the object can provide the data in format \fImimeType.\fR The default implementation iterates over format().
.PP
Note that it is often better to use the more-abstract canDecode() functions such as QTextDrag::canDecode() and QImageDrag::canDecode().
.PP
Reimplemented in QDropEvent.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/qmimesource.html
.BR http://www.trolltech.com/faq/tech.html
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1992-2001 Trolltech AS, http://www.trolltech.com.  See the
license file included in the distribution for a complete license
statement.
.SH AUTHOR
Generated automatically from the source code.
.SH BUGS
If you find a bug in Qt, please report it as described in
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/bughowto.html .
Good bug reports make our job much simpler. Thank you.
.P
In case of content or formattting problems with this manual page, please
report them to
.BR qt-bugs@trolltech.com .
Please include the name of the manual page (qmimesource.3qt) and the Qt
version (2.3.2).
