'\" t
.TH QMoveEvent 3qt "29 October 2001" "Trolltech AS" \" -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright 1992-2001 Trolltech AS.  All rights reserved.  See the
.\" license file included in the distribution for a complete license
.\" statement.
.\"
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
QMoveEvent \- Event parameters for move events
.br
.PP
\fC#include <qevent.h>\fR
.PP
Inherits QEvent.
.PP
.SS "Public Members"
.in +1c
.ti -1c
.BI "\fBQMoveEvent\fR ( const QPoint & " "pos" ", const QPoint & oldPos ) "
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "const QPoint& \fBpos\fR () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "const QPoint& \fBoldPos\fR () const"
.br
.in -1c
.SH DESCRIPTION
The QMoveEvent class contains event parameters for move events.
.PP
Move events are sent to widgets that have been moved to a new position relative to their parent.
.PP
The event handler QWidget::moveEvent() receives move events.
.PP
See also QWidget::move() and QWidget::setGeometry().
.SH MEMBER FUNCTION DOCUMENTATION
.SH "QMoveEvent::QMoveEvent ( const QPoint & pos, const QPoint & oldPos )"
Constructs a move event with the new and old widget positions.
.SH "const QPoint & QMoveEvent::oldPos () const"
Returns the old position of the widget.
.SH "const QPoint & QMoveEvent::pos () const"
Returns the new position of the widget, which is the same as
QWidget::pos().
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/qmoveevent.html
.BR http://www.trolltech.com/faq/tech.html
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1992-2001 Trolltech AS, http://www.trolltech.com.  See the
license file included in the distribution for a complete license
statement.
.SH AUTHOR
Generated automatically from the source code.
.SH BUGS
If you find a bug in Qt, please report it as described in
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/bughowto.html .
Good bug reports make our job much simpler. Thank you.
.P
In case of content or formattting problems with this manual page, please
report them to
.BR qt-bugs@trolltech.com .
Please include the name of the manual page (qmoveevent.3qt) and the Qt
version (2.3.2).
