'\" t
.TH QNPStream 3qt "29 October 2001" "Trolltech AS" \" -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright 1992-2001 Trolltech AS.  All rights reserved.  See the
.\" license file included in the distribution for a complete license
.\" statement.
.\"
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
QNPStream \- A stream of data provided to a
.br
.PP
\fC#include <qnp.h>\fR
.PP
.SS "Public Members"
.in +1c
.ti -1c
.BI "\fB~QNPStream\fR () "
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "const char* \fBurl\fR () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "uint \fBend\fR () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "uint \fBlastModified\fR () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "const char* \fBtype\fR () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "bool \fBseekable\fR () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "bool \fBokay\fR () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "bool \fBcomplete\fR () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "void \fBrequestRead\fR ( int " "offset" ", uint length ) "
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "int \fBwrite\fR ( int " "len" ", void * buffer ) "
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "QNPInstance* \fBinstance\fR () "
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "\fBQNPStream\fR ( QNPInstance *, const char *, _NPStream *, bool ) "
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "void \fBsetOkay\fR ( bool ) (internal)"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "void \fBsetComplete\fR ( bool ) (internal)"
.br
.in -1c
.SH DESCRIPTION
This class is defined in the \fBQt NSPlugin Extension\fR, which can be found in the \fCqt/extensions\fR directory. It is not included in the main Qt API.
.PP
A stream of data provided to a QNPInstance by the browser.
.PP
Note that this is neither a QTextStream or a QDataStream.
.PP
See also QNPInstance::write() and QNPInstance::newStreamCreated().
.PP
Examples:
.(l
qtimage/qtimage.cpp grapher/grapher.cpp
.)l
.SH MEMBER FUNCTION DOCUMENTATION
.SH "QNPStream::QNPStream ( QNPInstance * in,const char * mt, _NPStream * st, bool se )"
Creates a stream. Plugins should not call this, but rather QNPInstance::newStream() if a stream is required.
.SH "QNPStream::~QNPStream ()"
Destroys the stream.
.SH "bool QNPStream::complete () const"
Returns TRUE if the stream has received all the data from the source.
.SH "uint QNPStream::end () const"
Returns the length of the stream (???).
.SH "QNPInstance* QNPStream::instance ()"
Returns the QNPInstance for which this stream was created.
.SH "uint QNPStream::lastModified () const"
Returns the time when the source of the stream was last modified.
.SH "bool QNPStream::okay () const"
Returns TRUE if no errors have occurred on the stream.
.SH "void QNPStream::requestRead ( int offset, uint length )"
Requests the given section of the stream be sent to the QNPInstance::write() function of the instance() of this stream.
.SH "bool QNPStream::seekable () const"
Returns TRUE if the stream is seekable.
.SH "const char* QNPStream::type () const"
Returns the MIME type of the stream.
.SH "const char* QNPStream::url () const"
Returns the URL from which the stream was created.
.SH "int QNPStream::write ( int len, void * buffer )"
Writes data \fIto\fR the stream.
.SH "void QNPStream::setComplete ( bool y )"
For internal use only.
.SH "void QNPStream::setOkay ( bool y )"
For internal use only.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/qnpstream.html
.BR http://www.trolltech.com/faq/tech.html
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1992-2001 Trolltech AS, http://www.trolltech.com.  See the
license file included in the distribution for a complete license
statement.
.SH AUTHOR
Generated automatically from the source code.
.SH BUGS
If you find a bug in Qt, please report it as described in
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/bughowto.html .
Good bug reports make our job much simpler. Thank you.
.P
In case of content or formattting problems with this manual page, please
report them to
.BR qt-bugs@trolltech.com .
Please include the name of the manual page (qnpstream.3qt) and the Qt
version (2.3.2).
