'\" t
.TH QPaintEvent 3qt "29 October 2001" "Trolltech AS" \" -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright 1992-2001 Trolltech AS.  All rights reserved.  See the
.\" license file included in the distribution for a complete license
.\" statement.
.\"
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
QPaintEvent \- Event parameters for paint events
.br
.PP
\fC#include <qevent.h>\fR
.PP
Inherits QEvent.
.PP
.SS "Public Members"
.in +1c
.ti -1c
.BI "\fBQPaintEvent\fR ( const QRegion & " "paintRegion" ", bool " "erased" " = TRUE ) "
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "\fBQPaintEvent\fR ( const QRect & " "paintRect" ", bool " "erased" " = TRUE ) "
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "const QRect& \fBrect\fR () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "const QRegion& \fBregion\fR () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "bool \fBerased\fR () const"
.br
.in -1c
.SH DESCRIPTION
The QPaintEvent class contains event parameters for paint events.
.PP
Paint events are sent to widgets that need to update themselves, for instance when a part of a widget is exposed because an overlying widget is moved away.
.PP
The event handler QWidget::paintEvent() receives paint events.
.PP
See also QPainter, QWidget::update() and QWidget::repaint().
.PP
Examples:
.(l
qtimage/qtimage.cpp grapher/grapher.cpp drawlines/connect.cpp xform/xform.cpp drawdemo/drawdemo.cpp progress/progress.cpp qmag/qmag.cpp splitter/splitter.cpp desktop/desktop.cpp trivial/trivial.cpp picture/picture.cpp
.)l
.SH MEMBER FUNCTION DOCUMENTATION
.SH "QPaintEvent::QPaintEvent ( const QRect & paintRect, bool erased=TRUE = TRUE )"
Constructs a paint event object with the rectangle that should be updated.
.SH "QPaintEvent::QPaintEvent ( const QRegion & paintRegion, bool erased=TRUE = TRUE )"
Constructs a paint event object with the region that should be updated.
.SH "bool QPaintEvent::erased () const"
Returns whether the paint event region (or rectangle) has been erased with the widget's background.
.SH "const QRect & QPaintEvent::rect () const"
Returns the rectangle that should be updated.
.PP
See also region() and QPainter::setClipRect().
.PP
Examples:
.(l
qtimage/qtimage.cpp grapher/grapher.cpp progress/progress.cpp splitter/splitter.cpp trivial/trivial.cpp
.)l
.SH "const QRegion & QPaintEvent::region () const"
Returns the region that should be updated.
.PP
See also  rect() and QPainter::setClipRegion().
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/qpaintevent.html
.BR http://www.trolltech.com/faq/tech.html
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1992-2001 Trolltech AS, http://www.trolltech.com.  See the
license file included in the distribution for a complete license
statement.
.SH AUTHOR
Generated automatically from the source code.
.SH BUGS
If you find a bug in Qt, please report it as described in
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/bughowto.html .
Good bug reports make our job much simpler. Thank you.
.P
In case of content or formattting problems with this manual page, please
report them to
.BR qt-bugs@trolltech.com .
Please include the name of the manual page (qpaintevent.3qt) and the Qt
version (2.3.2).
