'\" t
.TH QPNGImagePacker 3qt "29 October 2001" "Trolltech AS" \" -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright 1992-2001 Trolltech AS.  All rights reserved.  See the
.\" license file included in the distribution for a complete license
.\" statement.
.\"
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
QPNGImagePacker \- Creates well-compressed PNG animations
.br
.PP
\fC#include <qpngio.h>\fR
.PP
Inherits QPNGImageWriter.
.PP
.SS "Public Members"
.in +1c
.ti -1c
.BI "\fBQPNGImagePacker\fR ( QIODevice *, int " "depth" ", int convflags ) "
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "void \fBsetPixelAlignment\fR ( int x ) "
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "bool \fBpackImage\fR ( const QImage & img ) "
.br
.in -1c
.SH DESCRIPTION
Creates well-compressed PNG animations.
.PP
By using transparency, QPNGImagePacker allows you to build a PNG image from a sequence of QImages.
.SH MEMBER FUNCTION DOCUMENTATION
.SH "QPNGImagePacker::QPNGImagePacker ( QIODevice * iod, int storage_depth, int conversionflags )"
Create an image packer that writes PNG data to \fIiod,\fR using a \fIstorage_depth\fR bit encoding (use 8 or 32, depending on the desired quality and compression requirements).
.SH "bool QPNGImagePacker::packImage ( const QImage & img )"
Add the image \fIimg\fR to the PNG animation, analyzing the differences between this and the previous image to improve compression.
.SH "void QPNGImagePacker::setPixelAlignment ( int x )"
Align pixel differences to \fIx\fR pixels.  For example, using 8 can
improve playback on certain hardware.  Normally the default of 1-pixel
alignment (ie. no alignment) gives bets compression and performance.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/qpngimagepacker.html
.BR http://www.trolltech.com/faq/tech.html
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1992-2001 Trolltech AS, http://www.trolltech.com.  See the
license file included in the distribution for a complete license
statement.
.SH AUTHOR
Generated automatically from the source code.
.SH BUGS
If you find a bug in Qt, please report it as described in
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/bughowto.html .
Good bug reports make our job much simpler. Thank you.
.P
In case of content or formattting problems with this manual page, please
report them to
.BR qt-bugs@trolltech.com .
Please include the name of the manual page (qpngimagepacker.3qt) and the Qt
version (2.3.2).
