'\" t
.TH QResizeEvent 3qt "29 October 2001" "Trolltech AS" \" -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright 1992-2001 Trolltech AS.  All rights reserved.  See the
.\" license file included in the distribution for a complete license
.\" statement.
.\"
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
QResizeEvent \- Event parameters for resize events
.br
.PP
\fC#include <qevent.h>\fR
.PP
Inherits QEvent.
.PP
.SS "Public Members"
.in +1c
.ti -1c
.BI "\fBQResizeEvent\fR ( const QSize & " "size" ", const QSize & oldSize ) "
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "const QSize& \fBsize\fR () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "const QSize& \fBoldSize\fR () const"
.br
.in -1c
.SH DESCRIPTION
The QResizeEvent class contains event parameters for resize events.
.PP
Resize events are sent to widgets that have been resized.
.PP
The event handler QWidget::resizeEvent() receives resize events.
.PP
See also QWidget::resize() and QWidget::setGeometry().
.PP
Examples:
.(l
mainlyQt/editor.cpp xform/xform.cpp mainlyXt/editor.cpp drawdemo/drawdemo.cpp menu/menu.cpp qmag/qmag.cpp mainlyMotif/editor.cpp
.)l
.SH MEMBER FUNCTION DOCUMENTATION
.SH "QResizeEvent::QResizeEvent ( const QSize & size, const QSize & oldSize )"
Constructs a resize event with the new and old widget sizes.
.SH "const QSize & QResizeEvent::oldSize () const"
Returns the old size of the widget.
.SH "const QSize & QResizeEvent::size () const"
Returns the new size of the widget, which is the same as
QWidget::size().
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/qresizeevent.html
.BR http://www.trolltech.com/faq/tech.html
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1992-2001 Trolltech AS, http://www.trolltech.com.  See the
license file included in the distribution for a complete license
statement.
.SH AUTHOR
Generated automatically from the source code.
.SH BUGS
If you find a bug in Qt, please report it as described in
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/bughowto.html .
Good bug reports make our job much simpler. Thank you.
.P
In case of content or formattting problems with this manual page, please
report them to
.BR qt-bugs@trolltech.com .
Please include the name of the manual page (qresizeevent.3qt) and the Qt
version (2.3.2).
