'\" t
.TH QSemiModal 3qt "29 October 2001" "Trolltech AS" \" -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright 1992-2001 Trolltech AS.  All rights reserved.  See the
.\" license file included in the distribution for a complete license
.\" statement.
.\"
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
QSemiModal \- The base class of semi-modal dialog windows
.br
.PP
\fC#include <qsemimodal.h>\fR
.PP
Inherits QWidget.
.PP
Inherited by QProgressDialog.
.PP
.SS "Public Members"
.in +1c
.ti -1c
.BI "\fBQSemiModal\fR ( QWidget * " "parent" "=0, const char * " "name" "=0, bool " "modal" "=FALSE, WFlags " "f" "=0 ) "
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "\fB~QSemiModal\fR () "
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual void \fBshow\fR () "
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual void \fBmove\fR ( int " "x" ", int y ) "
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "void \fBmove\fR ( const QPoint & p ) "
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual void \fBresize\fR ( int " "w" ", int h ) "
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "void \fBresize\fR ( const QSize & ) "
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual void \fBsetGeometry\fR ( int " "x" ", int " "y" ", int " "w" ", int h ) "
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual void \fBsetGeometry\fR ( const QRect & ) "
.br
.in -1c
.SH DESCRIPTION
The QSemiModal class is the base class of semi-modal dialog windows.
.PP
The semi-modal dialog window can disable events to other windows while it is open. To enable this, the QSemiModal must be constructed with TRUE for the \fImodal\fR argument, which is FALSE by default, for consistency with QDialog. Such a QSemiModal is modal like QDialog, but it does not have its own event loop. The flow of control is still within your code and it is up to you to update the semi-modal dialog (for example a progressbar) from time to time.
.PP
Note that the parent widget has a different meaning for dialogs than for other types of widgets. A dialog is placed on top of the parent widget. The dialog is centered on the screen if the parent widget is zero.
.SH MEMBER FUNCTION DOCUMENTATION
.SH "QSemiModal::QSemiModal ( QWidget * parent=0, const char * name=0, bool modal=FALSE, WFlags f=0 )"
Constructs a semi-modal dialog named \fIname,\fR which has a parent widget \fIparent.\fR If \fImodal\fR is FALSE (the default), the only behavior different to a QWidget is automatic sizing and positioning.
.SH "QSemiModal::~QSemiModal ()"
Destructs the widget, deleting all its children.
.SH "void QSemiModal::move ( const QPoint & p )"
Reimplements QWidget::move() for internal purposes.
.SH "void QSemiModal::move ( int x, int y ) \fC[virtual]\fR"
Reimplements QWidget::move() for internal purposes.
.PP
Reimplemented from QWidget.
.SH "void QSemiModal::resize ( const QSize & s )"
Reimplements QWidget::resize() for internal purposes.
.SH "void QSemiModal::resize ( int w, int h ) \fC[virtual]\fR"
Reimplements QWidget::resize() for internal purposes.
.PP
Reimplemented from QWidget.
.SH "void QSemiModal::setGeometry ( const QRect & r ) \fC[virtual]\fR"
Reimplements QWidget::setGeometry() for internal purposes.
.SH "void QSemiModal::setGeometry ( int x, int y, int w, int h ) \fC[virtual]\fR"
Reimplements QWidget::setGeometry() for internal purposes.
.SH "void QSemiModal::show () \fC[virtual]\fR"
Shows the widget. This implementation also does automatic resizing and automatic positioning. If you have not already resized or moved the dialog, it will find a size that fits the contents and a position near the middle of the screen (or centered relative to the parent widget if any).
.PP
Reimplemented from QWidget.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/qsemimodal.html
.BR http://www.trolltech.com/faq/tech.html
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1992-2001 Trolltech AS, http://www.trolltech.com.  See the
license file included in the distribution for a complete license
statement.
.SH AUTHOR
Generated automatically from the source code.
.SH BUGS
If you find a bug in Qt, please report it as described in
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/bughowto.html .
Good bug reports make our job much simpler. Thank you.
.P
In case of content or formattting problems with this manual page, please
report them to
.BR qt-bugs@trolltech.com .
Please include the name of the manual page (qsemimodal.3qt) and the Qt
version (2.3.2).
