'\" t
.TH QShowEvent 3qt "29 October 2001" "Trolltech AS" \" -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright 1992-2001 Trolltech AS.  All rights reserved.  See the
.\" license file included in the distribution for a complete license
.\" statement.
.\"
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
QShowEvent \- The event sent when a widget is shown
.br
.PP
\fC#include <qevent.h>\fR
.PP
Inherits QEvent.
.PP
.SS "Public Members"
.in +1c
.ti -1c
.BI "\fBQShowEvent\fR ( bool spontaneous ) "
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "bool \fBspontaneous\fR () const"
.br
.in -1c
.SH DESCRIPTION
The event sent when a widget is shown.
.PP
There are two kind of show events: spontaneous show events by the window system and internal show events. Spontaneous show events are sent just after the window system shows the window, including after a top-level window has been shown (un-iconified) by the user. Internal show events are delivered just before the widget becomes visible.
.PP
See also QHideEvent.
.SH MEMBER FUNCTION DOCUMENTATION
.SH "QShowEvent::QShowEvent ( bool spontaneous )"
Constructs a QShowEvent. \fIspontaneous\fR is TRUE if the event originated outside the application - ie. the user revealed the window via the window manager controls.
.SH "bool QShowEvent::spontaneous () const"
Returns TRUE if the event
originated outside the application - ie. the user revealed the window via the
window manager controls.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/qshowevent.html
.BR http://www.trolltech.com/faq/tech.html
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1992-2001 Trolltech AS, http://www.trolltech.com.  See the
license file included in the distribution for a complete license
statement.
.SH AUTHOR
Generated automatically from the source code.
.SH BUGS
If you find a bug in Qt, please report it as described in
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/bughowto.html .
Good bug reports make our job much simpler. Thank you.
.P
In case of content or formattting problems with this manual page, please
report them to
.BR qt-bugs@trolltech.com .
Please include the name of the manual page (qshowevent.3qt) and the Qt
version (2.3.2).
