'\" t
.TH QSignalMapper 3qt "29 October 2001" "Trolltech AS" \" -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright 1992-2001 Trolltech AS.  All rights reserved.  See the
.\" license file included in the distribution for a complete license
.\" statement.
.\"
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
QSignalMapper \- Bundles signals from identifiable senders
.br
.PP
\fC#include <qsignalmapper.h>\fR
.PP
Inherits QObject.
.PP
.SS "Public Members"
.in +1c
.ti -1c
.BI "\fBQSignalMapper\fR ( QObject * " "parent" ", const char * " "name" "=0 ) "
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "\fB~QSignalMapper\fR () "
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual void \fBsetMapping\fR ( const QObject * " "sender" ", int identifier ) "
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual void \fBsetMapping\fR ( const QObject * " "sender" ", const QString & identifier ) "
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "void \fBremoveMappings\fR ( const QObject * sender ) "
.br
.in -1c
.SS "Public Slots"
.in +1c
.ti -1c
.BI "void \fBmap\fR () "
.br
.in -1c
.SS "Signals"
.in +1c
.ti -1c
.BI "void \fBmapped\fR ( int ) "
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "void \fBmapped\fR ( const QString & ) "
.br
.in -1c
.SH DESCRIPTION
The QSignalMapper class bundles signals from identifiable senders.
.PP
Collects a set of parameterless signals, re-emitting them with an integer or string parameters corresponding to the object which sent the signal.
.PP
Examples:
.(l
i18n/main.cpp
.)l
.SH MEMBER FUNCTION DOCUMENTATION
.SH "QSignalMapper::QSignalMapper ( QObject * parent, const char * name=0 )"
Constructs a QSignalMapper. Like all QObjects, it will be deleted when the parent is deleted.
.SH "QSignalMapper::~QSignalMapper ()"
Destructs the QSignalMapper.
.SH "void QSignalMapper::map () \fC[slot]\fR"
This slot emits signals based on which object sends signals to it.
.SH "void QSignalMapper::mapped ( const QString & ) \fC[signal]\fR"
This signal is emitted when map() is signalled from an object which has a string mapping set.
.PP
See also setMapping(QString).
.SH "void QSignalMapper::mapped ( int ) \fC[signal]\fR"
This signal is emitted when map() is signalled from an object which has an integer mapping set.
.PP
See also setMapping(int).
.SH "void QSignalMapper::removeMappings ( const QObject * sender )"
Removes all mappings for \fIsender.\fR This is done automatically when mapped objects are destroyed.
.SH "void QSignalMapper::setMapping ( const QObject * sender, const QString & identifier ) \fC[virtual]\fR"
Adds a mapping such that when map() is signalled from the given sender, the signal mapper(identifier) is emitted.
.PP
There may be at most one string identifier for each object, and it may not be null.
.SH "void QSignalMapper::setMapping ( const QObject * sender, int identifier ) \fC[virtual]\fR"
Adds a mapping such that when map() is signalled from the given sender, the signal mapped(identifier) is emitted.
.PP
There may be at most one integer identifier for each object.
.PP
Examples:
.(l
i18n/main.cpp
.)l
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/qsignalmapper.html
.BR http://www.trolltech.com/faq/tech.html
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1992-2001 Trolltech AS, http://www.trolltech.com.  See the
license file included in the distribution for a complete license
statement.
.SH AUTHOR
Generated automatically from the source code.
.SH BUGS
If you find a bug in Qt, please report it as described in
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/bughowto.html .
Good bug reports make our job much simpler. Thank you.
.P
In case of content or formattting problems with this manual page, please
report them to
.BR qt-bugs@trolltech.com .
Please include the name of the manual page (qsignalmapper.3qt) and the Qt
version (2.3.2).
