'\" t
.TH QSizeGrip 3qt "29 October 2001" "Trolltech AS" \" -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright 1992-2001 Trolltech AS.  All rights reserved.  See the
.\" license file included in the distribution for a complete license
.\" statement.
.\"
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
QSizeGrip \- Corner-grip for resizing a top level window
.br
.PP
\fC#include <qsizegrip.h>\fR
.PP
Inherits QWidget.
.PP
.SS "Public Members"
.in +1c
.ti -1c
.BI "\fBQSizeGrip\fR ( QWidget * " "parent" ", const char * " "name" "=0 ) "
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "\fB~QSizeGrip\fR () "
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual QSize \fBsizeHint\fR () const"
.br
.in -1c
.SS "Protected Members"
.in +1c
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual void \fBpaintEvent\fR ( QPaintEvent * ) "
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual void \fBmousePressEvent\fR ( QMouseEvent * ) "
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual void \fBmouseMoveEvent\fR ( QMouseEvent * ) "
.br
.in -1c
.SH DESCRIPTION
The QSizeGrip class provides corner-grip for resizing a top level window.
.PP
This widget works like the standard Windows resize handle. In the X11 version this resize handle generally works differently than the one provided by the system; we hope to reduce this difference in the future.
.PP
Put this widget anywhere in a tree and the user can use it to resize the top-level window. Generally this should be in the lower right-hand corner. Note that QStatusBar already uses this widget, so if you have a status bar (eg. you are using QMainWindow), then you don't need to use this widget explicitly.
.PP
.ce 1
.B "[Image Omitted]"
.PP

.ce 1
.B "[Image Omitted]"
.PP
See also QStatusBar.
.PP
Examples:
.(l
scrollview/scrollview.cpp
.)l
.SH MEMBER FUNCTION DOCUMENTATION
.SH "QSizeGrip::QSizeGrip ( QWidget * parent, const char * name=0 )"
Construct a resize corner as a child widget of \fIparent.\fR
.SH "QSizeGrip::~QSizeGrip ()"
Destructor.
.SH "void QSizeGrip::mouseMoveEvent ( QMouseEvent * e ) \fC[virtual protected]\fR"
Resizes the top-level widget containing this widget.
.PP
Reimplemented from QWidget.
.SH "void QSizeGrip::mousePressEvent ( QMouseEvent * e ) \fC[virtual protected]\fR"
Primes the resize operation.
.PP
Reimplemented from QWidget.
.SH "void QSizeGrip::paintEvent ( QPaintEvent * e ) \fC[virtual protected]\fR"
Paints the resize grip - small diagonal textured lines in the lower right-hand corner.
.PP
Reimplemented from QWidget.
.SH "QSize QSizeGrip::sizeHint () const \fC[virtual]\fR"
Returns a small size.
.PP
Reimplemented from QWidget.
.SH "QSizePolicy QSizeGrip::sizePolicy () const \fC[virtual]\fR"
Reimplemented for internal reasons; the API is not affected.
.PP
Reimplemented from QWidget.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/qsizegrip.html
.BR http://www.trolltech.com/faq/tech.html
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1992-2001 Trolltech AS, http://www.trolltech.com.  See the
license file included in the distribution for a complete license
statement.
.SH AUTHOR
Generated automatically from the source code.
.SH BUGS
If you find a bug in Qt, please report it as described in
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/bughowto.html .
Good bug reports make our job much simpler. Thank you.
.P
In case of content or formattting problems with this manual page, please
report them to
.BR qt-bugs@trolltech.com .
Please include the name of the manual page (qsizegrip.3qt) and the Qt
version (2.3.2).
