'\" t
.TH QSortedList 3qt "29 October 2001" "Trolltech AS" \" -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright 1992-2001 Trolltech AS.  All rights reserved.  See the
.\" license file included in the distribution for a complete license
.\" statement.
.\"
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
QSortedList \- List sorted by operator
.br
.PP
\fC#include <qsortedlist.h>\fR
.PP
Inherits QList.
.PP
.SS "Public Members"
.in +1c
.ti -1c
.BI "\fBQSortedList\fR () "
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "\fBQSortedList\fR ( const QSortedList<type> & list ) "
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "\fB~QSortedList\fR () "
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "QSortedList<type>& \fBoperator=\fR ( const QSortedList<type> & list ) "
.br
.in -1c
.SH DESCRIPTION
The QSortedList class provides a list sorted by operator< and operator==
.PP
If you want to sort a QList you have to reimplement the QGList::compareItems() method. If the elements of your list support operator<() and operator==() then you can use QSortedList instead. Its compareItems() calls operator<() and operator==() and returns an appropriate result.
.PP
Otherwise, this is as QList.
.PP
See also QList and Collection Classes
.SH MEMBER FUNCTION DOCUMENTATION
.SH "QSortedList::QSortedList ()"
Constructs an empty list.
.SH "QSortedList::QSortedList ( const QSortedList<type> & list )"
Constructs a copy of \fIlist.\fR
.PP
Each item in \fIlist\fR is copied to this new list.
.SH "QSortedList::~QSortedList ()"
Removes all items from the list and destroys the list.
.PP
All list iterators that access this list will be reset.
.SH "int QSortedList::compareItems ( QCollection::Item s1, QCollection::Item s2 ) \fC[virtual]\fR"
Reimplemented for internal reasons; the API is not affected.
.PP
This reimplementation uses operator< and operator== to compare.
.SH "QSortedList<type>& QSortedList::operator= ( const QSortedList<type> & list )"
Assigns \fIlist\fR to this list and returns a reference to this list.
.PP
This list is first cleared, then each item in \fIlist\fR is
appended to this list.  Only the pointers are copied
(shallow copy), unless newItem() has been reimplemented().
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/qsortedlist.html
.BR http://www.trolltech.com/faq/tech.html
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1992-2001 Trolltech AS, http://www.trolltech.com.  See the
license file included in the distribution for a complete license
statement.
.SH AUTHOR
Generated automatically from the source code.
.SH BUGS
If you find a bug in Qt, please report it as described in
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/bughowto.html .
Good bug reports make our job much simpler. Thank you.
.P
In case of content or formattting problems with this manual page, please
report them to
.BR qt-bugs@trolltech.com .
Please include the name of the manual page (qsortedlist.3qt) and the Qt
version (2.3.2).
