'\" t
.TH QSpacerItem 3qt "29 October 2001" "Trolltech AS" \" -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright 1992-2001 Trolltech AS.  All rights reserved.  See the
.\" license file included in the distribution for a complete license
.\" statement.
.\"
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
QSpacerItem \- The
.br
.PP
\fC#include <qabstractlayout.h>\fR
.PP
Inherits QLayoutItem.
.PP
.SS "Public Members"
.in +1c
.ti -1c
.BI "\fBQSpacerItem\fR ( int " "w" ", int " "h" ", QSizePolicy::SizeType hData=QSizePolicy::Minimum, QSizePolicy::SizeType vData= QSizePolicy::Minimum ) "
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "void \fBchangeSize\fR ( int " "w" ", int " "h" ", QSizePolicy::SizeType hData=QSizePolicy::Minimum, QSizePolicy::SizeType vData=QSizePolicy::Minimum ) "
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual QSize \fBsizeHint\fR () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual QSize \fBminimumSize\fR () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual QSize \fBmaximumSize\fR () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual QSizePolicy::ExpandData \fBexpanding\fR () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual bool \fBisEmpty\fR () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual void \fBsetGeometry\fR ( const QRect & ) "
.br
.in -1c
.SH DESCRIPTION
The QLayoutItem class that represents blank space.
.PP
For custom layouts.
.PP
See also QLayout.
.SH MEMBER FUNCTION DOCUMENTATION
.SH "QSpacerItem::QSpacerItem ( int w, int h, QSizePolicy::SizeType hData=QSizePolicy::Minimum=QSizePolicy::Minimum, QSizePolicy::SizeType vData= QSizePolicy::Minimum= QSizePolicy::Minimum )"
Constructs a spacer item with preferred width \fIw,\fR preferred height \fIh,\fR horizontal size policy \fIhData\fR and vertical size policy \fIvData.\fR
.PP
The default values gives a gap that is able to stretch, if nothing else wants the space.
.SH "void QSpacerItem::changeSize ( int w, int h, QSizePolicy::SizeType hData=QSizePolicy::Minimum, QSizePolicy::SizeType vData=QSizePolicy::Minimum )"
Changes this spacer item to have preferred width \fIw,\fR preferred height \fIh,\fR horizontal size policy \fIhData\fR and vertical size policy \fIvData.\fR
.PP
The default values gives a gap that is able to stretch, if nothing else wants the space.
.SH "QSizePolicy::ExpandData QSpacerItem::expanding() const \fC[virtual]\fR"
Returns whether this space item is expanding.
.PP
Reimplemented from QLayoutItem.
.SH "QRect QSpacerItem::geometry () const \fC[virtual]\fR"
Reimplemented for internal reasons; the API is not affected.
.PP
Reimplemented from QLayoutItem.
.SH "bool QSpacerItem::isEmpty () const \fC[virtual]\fR"
Returns TRUE, since a space item never contains widgets.
.PP
Reimplemented from QLayoutItem.
.SH "QSize QSpacerItem::maximumSize () const \fC[virtual]\fR"
Returns the maximum size of this space item.
.PP
Reimplemented from QLayoutItem.
.SH "QSize QSpacerItem::minimumSize () const \fC[virtual]\fR"
Returns the minimum size of this space item.
.PP
Reimplemented from QLayoutItem.
.SH "void QSpacerItem::setGeometry ( const QRect & r ) \fC[virtual]\fR"
This function stores \fIr,\fR so it can be returned by geometry().
.PP
Reimplemented from QLayoutItem.
.SH "QSize QSpacerItem::sizeHint () const \fC[virtual]\fR"
Returns the preferred size of this space item.
.PP
Reimplemented from QLayoutItem.
.SH "QSpacerItem * QSpacerItem::spacerItem () \fC[virtual]\fR"
Reimplemented for internal reasons; the API is not affected.
.PP
Reimplemented from QLayoutItem.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/qspaceritem.html
.BR http://www.trolltech.com/faq/tech.html
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1992-2001 Trolltech AS, http://www.trolltech.com.  See the
license file included in the distribution for a complete license
statement.
.SH AUTHOR
Generated automatically from the source code.
.SH BUGS
If you find a bug in Qt, please report it as described in
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/bughowto.html .
Good bug reports make our job much simpler. Thank you.
.P
In case of content or formattting problems with this manual page, please
report them to
.BR qt-bugs@trolltech.com .
Please include the name of the manual page (qspaceritem.3qt) and the Qt
version (2.3.2).
