'\" t
.TH QStoredDrag 3qt "29 October 2001" "Trolltech AS" \" -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright 1992-2001 Trolltech AS.  All rights reserved.  See the
.\" license file included in the distribution for a complete license
.\" statement.
.\"
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
QStoredDrag \- Simple stored-value drag object for arbitrary MIME data
.br
.PP
\fC#include <qdragobject.h>\fR
.PP
Inherits QDragObject.
.PP
Inherited by QColorDrag and QUriDrag.
.PP
.SS "Public Members"
.in +1c
.ti -1c
.BI "\fBQStoredDrag\fR ( const char * " "mimeType" ", QWidget * " "dragSource" " = 0, const char * " "name" " = 0 ) "
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "\fB~QStoredDrag\fR () "
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual void \fBsetEncodedData\fR ( const QByteArray & ) "
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual QByteArray \fBencodedData\fR ( const char * ) const"
.br
.in -1c
.SH DESCRIPTION
Simple stored-value drag object for arbitrary MIME data.
.PP
When a block of data only has one representation, you can use a QStoredDrag to hold it.
.PP
For detailed information about drag-and-drop, see the QDragObject class.
.SH MEMBER FUNCTION DOCUMENTATION
.SH "QStoredDrag::QStoredDrag ( const char * mimeType, QWidget * dragSource = 0, const char * name = 0 )"
Constructs a QStoredDrag. The parameters are passed to the QDragObject constructor, and the format is set to \fImimeType.\fR
.PP
The data will be unset. Use setEncodedData() to set it.
.SH "QStoredDrag::~QStoredDrag ()"
Destructs the drag object and frees up all allocated resources.
.SH "QByteArray QStoredDrag::encodedData ( const char * m ) const \fC[virtual]\fR"
Returns the stored data.
.PP
See also setEncodedData().
.SH "const char * QStoredDrag::format ( int i ) const \fC[virtual]\fR"
Reimplemented for internal reasons; the API is not affected.
.PP
Reimplemented from QMimeSource.
.SH "void QStoredDrag::setEncodedData ( const QByteArray & encodedData ) \fC[virtual]\fR"
Sets the encoded data of this drag object to \fIencodedData.\fR The encoded data is what's delivered to the drop sites, and must be in a strictly defined and portable format.
.PP
The drag object can't be dropped (by the user) until this function
has been called.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/qstoreddrag.html
.BR http://www.trolltech.com/faq/tech.html
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1992-2001 Trolltech AS, http://www.trolltech.com.  See the
license file included in the distribution for a complete license
statement.
.SH AUTHOR
Generated automatically from the source code.
.SH BUGS
If you find a bug in Qt, please report it as described in
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/bughowto.html .
Good bug reports make our job much simpler. Thank you.
.P
In case of content or formattting problems with this manual page, please
report them to
.BR qt-bugs@trolltech.com .
Please include the name of the manual page (qstoreddrag.3qt) and the Qt
version (2.3.2).
