'\" t
.TH QStrIList 3qt "29 October 2001" "Trolltech AS" \" -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright 1992-2001 Trolltech AS.  All rights reserved.  See the
.\" license file included in the distribution for a complete license
.\" statement.
.\"
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
QStrIList \- Doubly linked list of
.br
.PP
\fC#include <qstrlist.h>\fR
.PP
Inherits QStrList.
.PP
.SS "Public Members"
.in +1c
.ti -1c
.BI "\fBQStrIList\fR ( bool " "deepCopies" "=TRUE ) "
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "\fB~QStrIList\fR () "
.br
.in -1c
.SH DESCRIPTION
The QStrIList class provides a doubly linked list of \fCchar*\fR with case insensitive compare.
.PP
This class is a QList<char> instance (a list of char*).
.PP
QStrIList is similar to QStrList except that it is case insensitive. The virtual compareItems() function is reimplemented and does a case insensitive string comparison. The inSort() function will insert strings in a sorted order.
.PP
The QStrListIterator class is an iterator for QStrList.
.SH MEMBER FUNCTION DOCUMENTATION
.SH "QStrIList::QStrIList ( bool deepCopies=TRUE )"
Constructs a list of strings. Will make deep copies of all inserted strings if \fIdeepCopies\fR is TRUE, or uses shallow copies if \fIdeepCopies\fR is FALSE.
.SH "QStrIList::~QStrIList ()"
Destroys the list.  All strings are removed.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/qstrilist.html
.BR http://www.trolltech.com/faq/tech.html
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1992-2001 Trolltech AS, http://www.trolltech.com.  See the
license file included in the distribution for a complete license
statement.
.SH AUTHOR
Generated automatically from the source code.
.SH BUGS
If you find a bug in Qt, please report it as described in
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/bughowto.html .
Good bug reports make our job much simpler. Thank you.
.P
In case of content or formattting problems with this manual page, please
report them to
.BR qt-bugs@trolltech.com .
Please include the name of the manual page (qstrilist.3qt) and the Qt
version (2.3.2).
