'\" t
.TH QTab 3qt "29 October 2001" "Trolltech AS" \" -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright 1992-2001 Trolltech AS.  All rights reserved.  See the
.\" license file included in the distribution for a complete license
.\" statement.
.\"
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
QTab \- The structures in a
.br
.PP
\fC#include <qtabbar.h>\fR
.PP
.SS "Public Members"
.in +1c
.ti -1c
.BI "\fBQTab\fR () "
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual \fB~QTab\fR () "
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "\fBQTab\fR ( const QString & text ) "
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "\fBQTab\fR ( const QIconSet & " "icon" ", const QString & text = QString::null ) "
.br
.in -1c
.SH DESCRIPTION
The structures in a QTabBar.
.PP
For custom QTabBar tab headings.
.PP
See also QTabBar.
.SH MEMBER FUNCTION DOCUMENTATION
.SH "QTab::QTab ()"
Constructs an empty tab. All fields are set to empty.
.SH "QTab::QTab ( const QIconSet & icon, const QString & text = QString::null )"
Constructs a tab with an \fIicon\fR and a \fItext.\fR
.SH "QTab::QTab ( const QString & text )"
Constructs a tab with a \fItext.\fR
.SH "QTab::~QTab () \fC[virtual]\fR"
Destructs the tab and frees up all allocated resources.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/qtab.html
.BR http://www.trolltech.com/faq/tech.html
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1992-2001 Trolltech AS, http://www.trolltech.com.  See the
license file included in the distribution for a complete license
statement.
.SH AUTHOR
Generated automatically from the source code.
.SH BUGS
If you find a bug in Qt, please report it as described in
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/bughowto.html .
Good bug reports make our job much simpler. Thank you.
.P
In case of content or formattting problems with this manual page, please
report them to
.BR qt-bugs@trolltech.com .
Please include the name of the manual page (qtab.3qt) and the Qt
version (2.3.2).
