'\" t
.TH QTableSelection 3qt "29 October 2001" "Trolltech AS" \" -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright 1992-2001 Trolltech AS.  All rights reserved.  See the
.\" license file included in the distribution for a complete license
.\" statement.
.\"
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
QTableSelection \- The QTableSelection provides access to the selected area in a
.br
.PP
\fC#include <qtable.h>\fR
.PP
.SS "Public Members"
.in +1c
.ti -1c
.BI "\fBQTableSelection\fR () "
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "void \fBinit\fR ( int " "row" ", int col ) "
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "void \fBexpandTo\fR ( int " "row" ", int col ) "
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "bool \fBoperator==\fR ( const QTableSelection & s ) const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "int \fBtopRow\fR () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "int \fBbottomRow\fR () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "int \fBleftCol\fR () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "int \fBrightCol\fR () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "int \fBanchorRow\fR () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "int \fBanchorCol\fR () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "bool \fBisActive\fR () const"
.br
.in -1c
.SH DESCRIPTION
The QTableSelection provides access to the selected area in a QTable.
.PP
The selection is a rectangular set of cells. One of the rectangle's cells is called the anchor cell; that cell is the first selected. The init() function sets the anchor and sets the selection rectangle to just that cell; the expandTo() function expands the selection rectangle.
.PP
There are various access functions to get the area: anchorRow() and anchorCol() return the achor's position, and leftCol(), rightCol(), topRow() and bottomRow() return the rectangle's four edges. All four are in the selection.
.PP
A newly created QTableSelection is inactive -- isActive() returns FALSE. You must use init() and expandTo() to activate it.
.PP
See also QTable, QTable::addSelection() and QTable::selection().
.SH MEMBER FUNCTION DOCUMENTATION
.SH "QTableSelection::QTableSelection ()"
Creates an inactive selection. Use init() and expandTo() to activate it.
.SH "int QTableSelection::anchorCol () const"
Returns the anchor column of the selection.
.SH "int QTableSelection::anchorRow () const"
Returns the anchor row of the selection.
.SH "int QTableSelection::bottomRow () const"
Returns the bottom row of the selection.
.SH "void QTableSelection::expandTo ( int row, int col )"
Expands the selection to \fIrow, col.\fR The new selection rectangle is the bounding rectangle of \fIrow, col\fR and the old selection rectangle. After calling that function, the selections is active.
.PP
If you didn't call init() yet, this function does nothing.
.PP
See also init() and isActive().
.SH "void QTableSelection::init ( int row, int col )"
Sets the selection anchor to row \fIrow\fR and column \fIcol\fR and sets the selection to just that cell.
.PP
See also expandTo() and isActive().
.SH "bool QTableSelection::isActive () const"
Returns whether the selection is active or not. A selection is active after init() and expandTo() has beem called.
.SH "int QTableSelection::leftCol () const"
Returns the left column of the selection.
.SH "bool QTableSelection::operator== ( const QTableSelection & s ) const"
Returns TRUE if \fIs\fR includes the same cells as this selection, or else FALSE.
.SH "int QTableSelection::rightCol () const"
Returns the right column of the selection.
.SH "int QTableSelection::topRow () const"
Returns the top row of the selection.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/qtableselection.html
.BR http://www.trolltech.com/faq/tech.html
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1992-2001 Trolltech AS, http://www.trolltech.com.  See the
license file included in the distribution for a complete license
statement.
.SH AUTHOR
Generated automatically from the source code.
.SH BUGS
If you find a bug in Qt, please report it as described in
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/bughowto.html .
Good bug reports make our job much simpler. Thank you.
.P
In case of content or formattting problems with this manual page, please
report them to
.BR qt-bugs@trolltech.com .
Please include the name of the manual page (qtableselection.3qt) and the Qt
version (2.3.2).
