'\" t
.TH QTextDrag 3qt "29 October 2001" "Trolltech AS" \" -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright 1992-2001 Trolltech AS.  All rights reserved.  See the
.\" license file included in the distribution for a complete license
.\" statement.
.\"
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
QTextDrag \- Drag-and-drop object for transferring plain and Unicode text
.br
.PP
\fC#include <qdragobject.h>\fR
.PP
Inherits QDragObject.
.PP
.SS "Public Members"
.in +1c
.ti -1c
.BI "\fBQTextDrag\fR ( const QString &, QWidget * " "dragSource" " = 0, const char * " "name" " = 0 ) "
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "\fBQTextDrag\fR ( QWidget * " "dragSource" " = 0, const char * " "name" " = 0 ) "
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "\fB~QTextDrag\fR () "
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual void \fBsetText\fR ( const QString & ) "
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual void \fBsetSubtype\fR ( const QCString & ) "
.br
.in -1c
.SS "Static Public Members"
.in +1c
.ti -1c
.BI "bool \fBcanDecode\fR ( const QMimeSource * e ) "
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "bool \fBdecode\fR ( const QMimeSource * " "e" ", QString & s ) "
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "bool \fBdecode\fR ( const QMimeSource * " "e" ", QString & " "s" ", QCString & subtype ) "
.br
.in -1c
.SH DESCRIPTION
The QTextDrag class is a drag-and-drop object for transferring plain and Unicode text.
.PP
Plain text is single- or multi-line 8-bit text in the local encoding.
.PP
Qt provides no built-in mechanism for delivering only single-line.
.PP
Drag&Drop text does \fInot\fR have a NUL terminator when it is dropped onto the target.
.PP
For detailed information about drag-and-drop, see the QDragObject class.
.SH MEMBER FUNCTION DOCUMENTATION
.SH "QTextDrag::QTextDrag ( QWidget * dragSource = 0, const char * name = 0 )"
Constructs a default text drag object. \fIdragSource\fR must be the drag source, \fIname\fR is the object name.
.SH "QTextDrag::QTextDrag ( const QString & text, QWidget * dragSource = 0, const char * name = 0 )"
Constructs a text drag object and sets it to \fItext. dragSource\fR must be the drag source, \fIname\fR is the object name.
.SH "QTextDrag::~QTextDrag ()"
Destructs the text drag object and frees up all allocated resources.
.SH "bool QTextDrag::canDecode ( const QMimeSource * e ) \fC[static]\fR"
Returns TRUE if the information in \fIe\fR can be decoded into a QString.
.PP
See also decode().
.SH "bool QTextDrag::decode ( const QMimeSource * e, QString & str ) \fC[static]\fR"
Attempts to decode the dropped information in \fIe\fR into \fIstr,\fR returning TRUE if successful.
.PP
See also canDecode().
.SH "bool QTextDrag::decode ( const QMimeSource * e, QString & str, QCString & subtype ) \fC[static]\fR"
Attempts to decode the dropped information in \fIe\fR into \fIstr,\fR returning TRUE if successful. If \fIsubtype\fR is null, any text subtype is accepted, otherwise only that specified is accepted. \fIsubtype\fR is set to the accepted subtype.
.PP
See also canDecode().
.SH "QByteArray QTextDrag::encodedData ( const char * mime ) const \fC[virtual]\fR"
Reimplemented for internal reasons; the API is not affected.
.SH "const char * QTextDrag::format ( int i ) const \fC[virtual]\fR"
Reimplemented for internal reasons; the API is not affected.
.PP
Reimplemented from QMimeSource.
.SH "void QTextDrag::setSubtype ( const QCString & st ) \fC[virtual]\fR"
Sets the MIME subtype of the text begin dragged. The default subtype is "plain", this the default MIME type of the text is "text/plain". You might use this to declare that the text is "text/html" by calling setSubtype("html").
.SH "void QTextDrag::setText ( const QString & text ) \fC[virtual]\fR"
Sets the text to be dragged.  You will need to call this if you did
not pass the text during construction.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/qtextdrag.html
.BR http://www.trolltech.com/faq/tech.html
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1992-2001 Trolltech AS, http://www.trolltech.com.  See the
license file included in the distribution for a complete license
statement.
.SH AUTHOR
Generated automatically from the source code.
.SH BUGS
If you find a bug in Qt, please report it as described in
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/bughowto.html .
Good bug reports make our job much simpler. Thank you.
.P
In case of content or formattting problems with this manual page, please
report them to
.BR qt-bugs@trolltech.com .
Please include the name of the manual page (qtextdrag.3qt) and the Qt
version (2.3.2).
