'\" t
.TH QTextDecoder 3qt "29 October 2001" "Trolltech AS" \" -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright 1992-2001 Trolltech AS.  All rights reserved.  See the
.\" license file included in the distribution for a complete license
.\" statement.
.\"
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
QTextDecoder \- State-based decoder
.br
.PP
\fC#include <qtextcodec.h>\fR
.PP
.SS "Public Members"
.in +1c
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual \fB~QTextDecoder\fR () "
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual QString \fBtoUnicode\fR ( const char * " "chars" ", int len ) "
.br
.in -1c
.SH DESCRIPTION
State-based decoder
.PP
A QTextEncoder converts a text format into Unicode, remembering any state that is required between calls.
.PP
See also QTextCodec::makeEncoder().
.SH MEMBER FUNCTION DOCUMENTATION
.SH "QTextDecoder::~QTextDecoder () \fC[virtual]\fR"
Destructs the decoder.
.SH "QString QTextDecoder::toUnicode ( const char * chars, int len ) \fC[virtual]\fR"
Converts the first \fIlen\fR bytes at \fIchars\fR to Unicode, returning the result.
.PP
If not all characters are used (eg. only part of a multi-byte
encoding is at the end of the characters), the decoder remembers
enough state to continue with the next call to this function.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/qtextdecoder.html
.BR http://www.trolltech.com/faq/tech.html
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1992-2001 Trolltech AS, http://www.trolltech.com.  See the
license file included in the distribution for a complete license
statement.
.SH AUTHOR
Generated automatically from the source code.
.SH BUGS
If you find a bug in Qt, please report it as described in
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/bughowto.html .
Good bug reports make our job much simpler. Thank you.
.P
In case of content or formattting problems with this manual page, please
report them to
.BR qt-bugs@trolltech.com .
Please include the name of the manual page (qtextdecoder.3qt) and the Qt
version (2.3.2).
