'\" t
.TH QTextEncoder 3qt "29 October 2001" "Trolltech AS" \" -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright 1992-2001 Trolltech AS.  All rights reserved.  See the
.\" license file included in the distribution for a complete license
.\" statement.
.\"
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
QTextEncoder \- State-based encoder
.br
.PP
\fC#include <qtextcodec.h>\fR
.PP
.SS "Public Members"
.in +1c
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual \fB~QTextEncoder\fR () "
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual QCString \fBfromUnicode\fR ( const QString & " "uc" ", int & lenInOut ) "
.br
.in -1c
.SH DESCRIPTION
State-based encoder
.PP
A QTextEncoder converts Unicode into another format, remembering any state that is required between calls.
.PP
See also QTextCodec::makeEncoder().
.SH MEMBER FUNCTION DOCUMENTATION
.SH "QTextEncoder::~QTextEncoder () \fC[virtual]\fR"
Destructs the encoder.
.SH "QCString QTextEncoder::fromUnicode ( const QString & uc, int & lenInOut ) \fC[virtual]\fR"
Converts \fIlenInOut\fR characters (not bytes) from \fIuc,\fR producing a QCString. \fIlenInOut\fR will also be set to the length of the result (in bytes).
.PP
The encoder is free to record state to use when subsequent calls are
made to this function (for example, it might change modes with escape
sequences if needed during the encoding of one string, then assume that
mode applies when a subsequent call begins).
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/qtextencoder.html
.BR http://www.trolltech.com/faq/tech.html
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1992-2001 Trolltech AS, http://www.trolltech.com.  See the
license file included in the distribution for a complete license
statement.
.SH AUTHOR
Generated automatically from the source code.
.SH BUGS
If you find a bug in Qt, please report it as described in
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/bughowto.html .
Good bug reports make our job much simpler. Thank you.
.P
In case of content or formattting problems with this manual page, please
report them to
.BR qt-bugs@trolltech.com .
Please include the name of the manual page (qtextencoder.3qt) and the Qt
version (2.3.2).
