'\" t
.TH QTimerEvent 3qt "29 October 2001" "Trolltech AS" \" -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright 1992-2001 Trolltech AS.  All rights reserved.  See the
.\" license file included in the distribution for a complete license
.\" statement.
.\"
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
QTimerEvent \- Parameters that describe a timer event
.br
.PP
\fC#include <qevent.h>\fR
.PP
Inherits QEvent.
.PP
.SS "Public Members"
.in +1c
.ti -1c
.BI "\fBQTimerEvent\fR ( int timerId ) "
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "int \fBtimerId\fR () const"
.br
.in -1c
.SH DESCRIPTION
The QTimerEvent class contains parameters that describe a timer event.
.PP
Timer events are sent at regular intervals to objects that have started one or more timers. Each timer has a unique identifier. A timer is started with QObject::startTimer().
.PP
The QTimer class provides a high-level programming interface that uses signals instead of events. It also provides one-shot timers.
.PP
The event handler QObject::timerEvent() receives timer events.
.PP
See also QTimer, QObject::timerEvent(), QObject::startTimer(), QObject::killTimer() and QObject::killTimers().
.PP
Examples:
.(l
grapher/grapher.cpp xform/xform.cpp progress/progress.cpp qmag/qmag.cpp forever/forever.cpp scrollview/scrollview.cpp
.)l
.SH MEMBER FUNCTION DOCUMENTATION
.SH "QTimerEvent::QTimerEvent ( int timerId )"
Constructs a timer event object with the timer identifier set to \fItimerId.\fR
.SH "int QTimerEvent::timerId () const"
Returns the unique timer identifier, which is the same identifier as
returned from QObject::startTimer().
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/qtimerevent.html
.BR http://www.trolltech.com/faq/tech.html
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1992-2001 Trolltech AS, http://www.trolltech.com.  See the
license file included in the distribution for a complete license
statement.
.SH AUTHOR
Generated automatically from the source code.
.SH BUGS
If you find a bug in Qt, please report it as described in
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/bughowto.html .
Good bug reports make our job much simpler. Thank you.
.P
In case of content or formattting problems with this manual page, please
report them to
.BR qt-bugs@trolltech.com .
Please include the name of the manual page (qtimerevent.3qt) and the Qt
version (2.3.2).
