'\" t
.TH QUriDrag 3qt "29 October 2001" "Trolltech AS" \" -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright 1992-2001 Trolltech AS.  All rights reserved.  See the
.\" license file included in the distribution for a complete license
.\" statement.
.\"
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
QUriDrag \- Provides for drag-and-drop of a list of URI references
.br
.PP
\fC#include <qdragobject.h>\fR
.PP
Inherits QStoredDrag.
.PP
.SS "Public Members"
.in +1c
.ti -1c
.BI "\fBQUriDrag\fR ( QStrList " "uris" ", QWidget * " "dragSource" " = 0, const char * " "name" " = 0 ) "
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "\fBQUriDrag\fR ( QWidget * " "dragSource" " = 0, const char * " "name" " = 0 ) "
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "\fB~QUriDrag\fR () "
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "void \fBsetFilenames\fR ( QStringList fnames ) "
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "void \fBsetUnicodeUris\fR ( QStringList uuris ) "
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual void \fBsetUris\fR ( QStrList uris ) "
.br
.in -1c
.SS "Static Public Members"
.in +1c
.ti -1c
.BI "QString \fBuriToLocalFile\fR ( const char * ) "
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "QCString \fBlocalFileToUri\fR ( const QString & ) "
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "QString \fBuriToUnicodeUri\fR ( const char * ) "
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "QCString \fBunicodeUriToUri\fR ( const QString & ) "
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "bool \fBcanDecode\fR ( const QMimeSource * e ) "
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "bool \fBdecode\fR ( const QMimeSource * " "e" ", QStrList & i ) "
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "bool \fBdecodeToUnicodeUris\fR ( const QMimeSource * " "e" ", QStringList & i ) "
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "bool \fBdecodeLocalFiles\fR ( const QMimeSource * " "e" ", QStringList & i ) "
.br
.in -1c
.SH DESCRIPTION
Provides for drag-and-drop of a list of URI references.
.PP
URIs are a useful way to refer to files that may be distributed across multiple machines. Much of the time a URI will refer to a file on a machine local to both the drag source and the drop target, and so the URI will be equivalent to passing a filename, but more extensible.
.PP
While presenting URIs to the user, use them in Unicode form so that the user can comfortably edit and view them. For use in HTTP or other protocols, use the correctly escaped ASCII form (see.
.SH MEMBER FUNCTION DOCUMENTATION
.SH "QUriDrag::QUriDrag ( QStrList uris, QWidget * dragSource = 0, const char * name = 0 )"
Constructs an object to drag the list of URIs in \fIuris.\fR The \fIdragSource\fR and \fIname\fR arguments are passed on to QStoredDrag. Note that URIs are always in escaped UTF8 encoding, as defined by the W3C.
.SH "QUriDrag::QUriDrag ( QWidget * dragSource = 0, const char * name = 0 )"
Constructs a object to drag. You will need to call setUris() before you start the drag().
.SH "QUriDrag::~QUriDrag ()"
Destructs the object.
.SH "bool QUriDrag::canDecode ( const QMimeSource * e ) \fC[static]\fR"
Returns TRUE if decode() would be able to decode \fIe.\fR
.SH "bool QUriDrag::decode ( const QMimeSource * e, QStrList & l ) \fC[static]\fR"
Decodes URIs from \fIe,\fR placing the result in \fIl\fR (which is first cleared).
.PP
Returns TRUE if the event contained a valid list of URIs.
.SH "bool QUriDrag::decodeLocalFiles ( const QMimeSource * e, QStringList & l ) \fC[static]\fR"
Decodes URIs from \fIe,\fR converts them to local files if they refer to local files, and places them in \fIl\fR (which is first cleared).
.PP
Returns TRUE if the event contained a valid list of URIs. The list will be empty if no URIs were local files.
.SH "bool QUriDrag::decodeToUnicodeUris ( const QMimeSource * e, QStringList & l ) \fC[static]\fR"
Decodes URIs from \fIe,\fR converts them to Unicode URIs (only useful for displaying to humans), placing them in \fIl\fR (which is first cleared).
.PP
Returns TRUE if the event contained a valid list of URIs.
.SH "QCString QUriDrag::localFileToUri ( const QString & filename ) \fC[static]\fR"
Returns the URI equivalent to the absolute local file \fIfilename.\fR
.PP
See also uriToLocalFile().
.SH "void QUriDrag::setFilenames ( QStringList fnames )"
Sets the URIs to be the local-file URIs equivalent to \fIfnames.\fR
.PP
See also localFileToUri() and setUris().
.SH "void QUriDrag::setUnicodeUris ( QStringList uuris )"
Sets the URIs to be the Unicode URIs (only useful for displaying to humans) \fIuuris.\fR
.PP
See also localFileToUri() and setUris().
.SH "void QUriDrag::setUris ( QStrList uris ) \fC[virtual]\fR"
Changes the list of \fIuris\fR to be dragged.
.SH "QCString QUriDrag::unicodeUriToUri ( const QString & uuri ) \fC[static]\fR"
Returns the URI equivalent to the Unicode URI (only useful for displaying to humans). \fIuuri.\fR
.PP
See also uriToLocalFile().
.SH "QString QUriDrag::uriToLocalFile ( const char * uri ) \fC[static]\fR"
Returns the name of a local file equivalent to \fIuri,\fR or a null string if \fIuri\fR is not a local file.
.PP
See also localFileToUri().
.SH "QString QUriDrag::uriToUnicodeUri ( const char * uri ) \fC[static]\fR"
Returns the Unicode URI (only useful for displaying to humans) equivalent to \fIuri.\fR
.PP
See also  localFileToUri().
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/quridrag.html
.BR http://www.trolltech.com/faq/tech.html
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1992-2001 Trolltech AS, http://www.trolltech.com.  See the
license file included in the distribution for a complete license
statement.
.SH AUTHOR
Generated automatically from the source code.
.SH BUGS
If you find a bug in Qt, please report it as described in
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/bughowto.html .
Good bug reports make our job much simpler. Thank you.
.P
In case of content or formattting problems with this manual page, please
report them to
.BR qt-bugs@trolltech.com .
Please include the name of the manual page (quridrag.3qt) and the Qt
version (2.3.2).
