'\" t
.TH QValueListConstIterator 3qt "29 October 2001" "Trolltech AS" \" -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright 1992-2001 Trolltech AS.  All rights reserved.  See the
.\" license file included in the distribution for a complete license
.\" statement.
.\"
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
QValueListConstIterator \- Iterator for
.br
.PP
\fC#include <qvaluelist.h>\fR
.PP
.SS "Public Members"
.in +1c
.ti -1c
.BI "\fBQValueListConstIterator\fR () "
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "\fBQValueListConstIterator\fR ( NodePtr p ) "
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "\fBQValueListConstIterator\fR ( const QValueListConstIterator<T> & it ) "
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "\fBQValueListConstIterator\fR ( const QValueListIterator<T> & it ) "
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "bool \fBoperator==\fR ( const QValueListConstIterator<T> & it ) const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "bool \fBoperator!=\fR ( const QValueListConstIterator<T> & it ) const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "const T& \fBoperator*\fR () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "QValueListConstIterator<T>& \fBoperator++\fR () "
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "QValueListConstIterator<T> \fBoperator++\fR ( int ) "
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "QValueListConstIterator<T>& \fBoperator--\fR () "
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "QValueListConstIterator<T> \fBoperator--\fR ( int ) "
.br
.in -1c
.SH DESCRIPTION
The QValueListConstIterator class provides an iterator for QValueList.
.PP
In contrast to QValueListIterator this class is used to iterate over a const list. It does not allow to modify the values of the list since this would break the const semantics.
.PP
For more informations on QValueList iterators see QValueListIterator.
.PP
See also QValueListIterator and QValueList.
.SH MEMBER FUNCTION DOCUMENTATION
.SH "QValueListConstIterator::QValueListConstIterator ()"
Creates un uninitialized iterator.
.SH "QValueListConstIterator::QValueListConstIterator ( NodePtr p )"
Internal function.
.SH "QValueListConstIterator::QValueListConstIterator ( const QValueListIterator<T> & it )"
Constructs a copy of the iterator \fIit.\fR
.SH "QValueListConstIterator::QValueListConstIterator ( const QValueListConstIterator<T> & it )"
Constructs a copy of the iterator \fIit.\fR
.SH "bool QValueListConstIterator::operator!= ( const QValueListConstIterator<T> & it ) const"
Compares both iterators and returns TRUE if they point to different items.
.SH "const T& QValueListConstIterator::operator* () const"
Asterix operator. Returns a reference to the current iterator item.
.SH "QValueListConstIterator<T> QValueListConstIterator::operator++ ( int )"
Postfix ++ makes the succeeding item current and returns an iterator pointing to the new current item. The iterator can not check wether it reached the end of the list. Incrementing the iterator as returned by end() causes undefined results.
.SH "QValueListConstIterator<T>& QValueListConstIterator::operator++ ()"
Prefix ++ makes the succeeding item current and returns an iterator pointing to the new current item. The iterator can not check wether it reached the end of the list. Incrementing the iterator as returned by end() causes undefined results.
.SH "QValueListConstIterator<T> QValueListConstIterator::operator-- ( int )"
Postfix -- makes the previous item current and returns an iterator pointing to the new current item. The iterator can not check wether it reached the beginning of the list. Decrementing the iterator as returned by begin() causes undefined results.
.SH "QValueListConstIterator<T>& QValueListConstIterator::operator-- ()"
Prefix -- makes the previous item current and returns an iterator pointing to the new current item. The iterator can not check wether it reached the beginning of the list. Decrementing the iterator as returned by begin() causes undefined results.
.SH "bool QValueListConstIterator::operator== ( const QValueListConstIterator<T> & it ) const"
Compares both iterators and returns TRUE if they point to the same item.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/qvaluelistconstiterator.html
.BR http://www.trolltech.com/faq/tech.html
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1992-2001 Trolltech AS, http://www.trolltech.com.  See the
license file included in the distribution for a complete license
statement.
.SH AUTHOR
Generated automatically from the source code.
.SH BUGS
If you find a bug in Qt, please report it as described in
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/bughowto.html .
Good bug reports make our job much simpler. Thank you.
.P
In case of content or formattting problems with this manual page, please
report them to
.BR qt-bugs@trolltech.com .
Please include the name of the manual page (qvaluelistconstiterator.3qt) and the Qt
version (2.3.2).
