'\" t
.TH QVBox 3qt "29 October 2001" "Trolltech AS" \" -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright 1992-2001 Trolltech AS.  All rights reserved.  See the
.\" license file included in the distribution for a complete license
.\" statement.
.\"
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
QVBox \- Performs geometry management on its children
.br
.PP
\fC#include <qvbox.h>\fR
.PP
Inherits QHBox.
.PP
.SS "Public Members"
.in +1c
.ti -1c
.BI "\fBQVBox\fR ( QWidget * " "parent" "=0, const char * " "name" "=0, WFlags " "f" "=0, bool " "allowLines" "=TRUE ) "
.br
.in -1c
.SH DESCRIPTION
The QVBox widget performs geometry management on its children
.PP
All its children will be placed vertically and sized according to their sizeHint()s.
.PP
.ce 1
.B "[Image Omitted]"
.PP
See also QVBox and QHBox.
.PP
Examples:
.(l
xform/xform.cpp
.)l
.SH MEMBER FUNCTION DOCUMENTATION
.SH "QVBox::QVBox ( QWidget * parent=0, const char * name=0, WFlags f=0, bool allowLines=TRUE )"
Constructs a vbox widget with parent \fIparent\fR and name \fIname\fR
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/qvbox.html
.BR http://www.trolltech.com/faq/tech.html
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1992-2001 Trolltech AS, http://www.trolltech.com.  See the
license file included in the distribution for a complete license
statement.
.SH AUTHOR
Generated automatically from the source code.
.SH BUGS
If you find a bug in Qt, please report it as described in
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/bughowto.html .
Good bug reports make our job much simpler. Thank you.
.P
In case of content or formattting problems with this manual page, please
report them to
.BR qt-bugs@trolltech.com .
Please include the name of the manual page (qvbox.3qt) and the Qt
version (2.3.2).
