'\" t
.TH QWidgetItem 3qt "29 October 2001" "Trolltech AS" \" -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright 1992-2001 Trolltech AS.  All rights reserved.  See the
.\" license file included in the distribution for a complete license
.\" statement.
.\"
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
QWidgetItem \- A
.br
.PP
\fC#include <qabstractlayout.h>\fR
.PP
Inherits QLayoutItem.
.PP
.SS "Public Members"
.in +1c
.ti -1c
.BI "\fBQWidgetItem\fR ( QWidget * w ) "
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual QSize \fBsizeHint\fR () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual QSize \fBminimumSize\fR () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual QSize \fBmaximumSize\fR () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual QSizePolicy::ExpandData \fBexpanding\fR () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual bool \fBisEmpty\fR () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual void \fBsetGeometry\fR ( const QRect & ) "
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual QWidget* \fBwidget\fR () "
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "const QSize& \fBwidgetSizeHint\fR () const"
.br
.in -1c
.SH DESCRIPTION
A QLayoutItem that represents widget.
.PP
For custom layouts.
.PP
See also QLayout.
.SH MEMBER FUNCTION DOCUMENTATION
.SH "QWidgetItem::QWidgetItem ( QWidget * w )"
Creates an item containing \fIw.\fR
.SH "QSizePolicy::ExpandData QWidgetItem::expanding() const \fC[virtual]\fR"
Returns whether this item's widget is expanding.
.PP
Reimplemented from QLayoutItem.
.SH "QRect QWidgetItem::geometry () const \fC[virtual]\fR"
Reimplemented for internal reasons; the API is not affected.
.PP
Reimplemented from QLayoutItem.
.SH "bool QWidgetItem::hasHeightForWidth () const \fC[virtual]\fR"
Reimplemented for internal reasons; the API is not affected.
.PP
Reimplemented from QLayoutItem.
.SH "int QWidgetItem::heightForWidth ( int w ) const \fC[virtual]\fR"
Reimplemented for internal reasons; the API is not affected.
.PP
Reimplemented from QLayoutItem.
.SH "bool QWidgetItem::isEmpty () const \fC[virtual]\fR"
Returns TRUE, if the widget has been hidden, FALSE otherwise.
.PP
Reimplemented from QLayoutItem.
.SH "QSize QWidgetItem::maximumSize () const \fC[virtual]\fR"
Returns the maximum size of this item.
.PP
Reimplemented from QLayoutItem.
.SH "QSize QWidgetItem::minimumSize () const \fC[virtual]\fR"
Returns the minimum size of this item.
.PP
Reimplemented from QLayoutItem.
.SH "void QWidgetItem::setGeometry ( const QRect & r ) \fC[virtual]\fR"
Sets the geometry of this item's widget to be contained within \fIr,\fR taking alignment and maximum size into account.
.PP
Reimplemented from QLayoutItem.
.SH "QSize QWidgetItem::sizeHint () const \fC[virtual]\fR"
Returns the preferred size of this item.
.PP
Reimplemented from QLayoutItem.
.SH "QWidget * QWidgetItem::widget () \fC[virtual]\fR"
Returns the widget managed by this item.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/qwidgetitem.html
.BR http://www.trolltech.com/faq/tech.html
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1992-2001 Trolltech AS, http://www.trolltech.com.  See the
license file included in the distribution for a complete license
statement.
.SH AUTHOR
Generated automatically from the source code.
.SH BUGS
If you find a bug in Qt, please report it as described in
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/bughowto.html .
Good bug reports make our job much simpler. Thank you.
.P
In case of content or formattting problems with this manual page, please
report them to
.BR qt-bugs@trolltech.com .
Please include the name of the manual page (qwidgetitem.3qt) and the Qt
version (2.3.2).
