'\" t
.TH QWSWindow 3qt "29 October 2001" "Trolltech AS" \" -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright 1992-2001 Trolltech AS.  All rights reserved.  See the
.\" license file included in the distribution for a complete license
.\" statement.
.\"
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
QWSWindow \- Server-specific functionality in Qt/Embedded
.br
.PP
\fC#include <qwindowsystem_qws.h>\fR
.PP
.SS "Public Members"
.in +1c
.ti -1c
.BI "\fBQWSWindow\fR ( int " "i" ", QWSClient * client ) "
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "\fB~QWSWindow\fR () "
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "int \fBwinId\fR () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "const QString& \fBname\fR () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "const QString& \fBcaption\fR () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "QWSClient* \fBclient\fR () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "QRegion \fBrequested\fR () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "QRegion \fBallocation\fR () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "bool \fBisVisible\fR () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "bool \fBisPartiallyObscured\fR () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "bool \fBisFullyObscured\fR () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "void \fBraise\fR () "
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "void \fBlower\fR () "
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "void \fBshow\fR () "
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "void \fBhide\fR () "
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "void \fBsetActiveWindow\fR () "
.br
.in -1c
.SH DESCRIPTION
Server-specific functionality in Qt/Embedded
.PP
When you run a Qt/Embedded application, it either runs as a server or connects to an existing server. If it runs as a server, some additional operations are provided via the QWSServer class.
.PP
This class maintains information about each window and allows operations to be performed on the windows.
.SH MEMBER FUNCTION DOCUMENTATION
.SH "QRegion QWSWindow::allocation () const"
Returns the region that the window is allowed to draw into including any window decorations and excluding regions covered by other windows.
.PP
See also requested().
.SH "const QString & QWSWindow::caption () const"
Returns this windows caption.
.SH "QWSClient* QWSWindow::client () const"
Returns the QWSClient that owns this window.
.SH "void QWSWindow::hide ()"
Hides the window.
.SH "bool QWSWindow::isFullyObscured () const"
Returns TRUE is the window is completely obsured by another window or the bounds of the screen.
.SH "bool QWSWindow::isPartiallyObscured () const"
Returns TRUE is the window is partially obsured by another window or the bounds of the screen.
.SH "bool QWSWindow::isVisible () const"
Returns TRUE if the window is visible.
.SH "void QWSWindow::lower ()"
Lowers the window below other windows.
.SH "const QString & QWSWindow::name () const"
Returns the name of this window.
.SH "void QWSWindow::raise ()"
Raises the window above all other windows except "Stay on top" windows.
.SH "QRegion QWSWindow::requested () const"
Returns the region that the window has requested to draw into including any window decorations.
.PP
See also allocation().
.SH "void QWSWindow::setActiveWindow ()"
Make this the active window (i.e. sets keyboard focus).
.SH "void QWSWindow::show ()"
Shows the window.
.SH "int QWSWindow::winId () const"
Returns the Id of this window.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/qwswindow.html
.BR http://www.trolltech.com/faq/tech.html
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1992-2001 Trolltech AS, http://www.trolltech.com.  See the
license file included in the distribution for a complete license
statement.
.SH AUTHOR
Generated automatically from the source code.
.SH BUGS
If you find a bug in Qt, please report it as described in
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/bughowto.html .
Good bug reports make our job much simpler. Thank you.
.P
In case of content or formattting problems with this manual page, please
report them to
.BR qt-bugs@trolltech.com .
Please include the name of the manual page (qwswindow.3qt) and the Qt
version (2.3.2).
