'\" t
.TH QXmlInputSource 3qt "29 October 2001" "Trolltech AS" \" -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright 1992-2001 Trolltech AS.  All rights reserved.  See the
.\" license file included in the distribution for a complete license
.\" statement.
.\"
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
QXmlInputSource \- The source where XML data is read from
.br
.PP
\fC#include <qxml.h>\fR
.PP
.SS "Public Members"
.in +1c
.ti -1c
.BI "\fBQXmlInputSource\fR () "
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "\fBQXmlInputSource\fR ( QTextStream & stream ) "
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "\fBQXmlInputSource\fR ( QFile & file ) "
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual \fB~QXmlInputSource\fR () "
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual const QString& \fBdata\fR () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual void \fBsetData\fR ( const QString & d ) "
.br
.in -1c
.SH DESCRIPTION
The QXmlInputSource class is the source where XML data is read from.
.PP
All subclasses of QXmlReader read the input from this class.
.PP
Examples:
.(l
xml/tagreader/tagreader.cpp xml/tagreader
.)l-with-features/tagreader.cpp
.SH MEMBER FUNCTION DOCUMENTATION
.SH "QXmlInputSource::QXmlInputSource ()"
Constructs a input source which contains no data.
.SH "QXmlInputSource::QXmlInputSource ( QFile & file )"
Constructs a input source and get the data from a file. If the file cannot be read the input source is empty.
.SH "QXmlInputSource::QXmlInputSource ( QTextStream & stream )"
Constructs a input source and get the data from the text stream.
.SH "QXmlInputSource::~QXmlInputSource () \fC[virtual]\fR"
Destructor.
.SH "const QString& QXmlInputSource::data () const \fC[virtual]\fR"
Returns all the data this input source contains.
.SH "void QXmlInputSource::setData ( const QString & dat ) \fC[virtual]\fR"
Sets the data of the input source to \fIdat.\fR
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/qxmlinputsource.html
.BR http://www.trolltech.com/faq/tech.html
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1992-2001 Trolltech AS, http://www.trolltech.com.  See the
license file included in the distribution for a complete license
statement.
.SH AUTHOR
Generated automatically from the source code.
.SH BUGS
If you find a bug in Qt, please report it as described in
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/bughowto.html .
Good bug reports make our job much simpler. Thank you.
.P
In case of content or formattting problems with this manual page, please
report them to
.BR qt-bugs@trolltech.com .
Please include the name of the manual page (qxmlinputsource.3qt) and the Qt
version (2.3.2).
