'\" t
.TH QXmlParseException 3qt "29 October 2001" "Trolltech AS" \" -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright 1992-2001 Trolltech AS.  All rights reserved.  See the
.\" license file included in the distribution for a complete license
.\" statement.
.\"
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
QXmlParseException \- Used to report errors with the
.br
.PP
\fC#include <qxml.h>\fR
.PP
.SS "Public Members"
.in +1c
.ti -1c
.BI "\fBQXmlParseException\fR ( const QString & " "name" "="""", int " "c" "=-1, int " "l" "=-1, const QString & " "p" "="""", const QString & " "s" "="""" ) "
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "int \fBcolumnNumber\fR () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "int \fBlineNumber\fR () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "QString \fBpublicId\fR () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "QString \fBsystemId\fR () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "QString \fBmessage\fR () const"
.br
.in -1c
.SH DESCRIPTION
The QXmlParseException class is used to report errors with the QXmlErrorHandler interface.
.PP
See also QXmlErrorHandler.
.SH MEMBER FUNCTION DOCUMENTATION
.SH "QXmlParseException::QXmlParseException ( const QString & name="", int c=-1, int l=-1, const QString & p="", const QString & s="" )"
Constructs a parse exception with the error string \fIname\fR in the column \fIc\fR and line \fIl\fR for the public identifier \fIp\fR and the system identifier \fIs.\fR
.SH "int QXmlParseException::columnNumber () const"
Returns the column number the error occured.
.SH "int QXmlParseException::lineNumber () const"
Returns the line number the error occured.
.SH "QString QXmlParseException::message () const"
Returns the error message.
.SH "QString QXmlParseException::publicId () const"
Returns the public identifier the error occured.
.SH "QString QXmlParseException::systemId () const"
Returns the system identifier the error occured.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/qxmlparseexception.html
.BR http://www.trolltech.com/faq/tech.html
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1992-2001 Trolltech AS, http://www.trolltech.com.  See the
license file included in the distribution for a complete license
statement.
.SH AUTHOR
Generated automatically from the source code.
.SH BUGS
If you find a bug in Qt, please report it as described in
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/bughowto.html .
Good bug reports make our job much simpler. Thank you.
.P
In case of content or formattting problems with this manual page, please
report them to
.BR qt-bugs@trolltech.com .
Please include the name of the manual page (qxmlparseexception.3qt) and the Qt
version (2.3.2).
