'\" t
.TH QXmlLexicalHandler 3qt "29 October 2001" "Trolltech AS" \" -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright 1992-2001 Trolltech AS.  All rights reserved.  See the
.\" license file included in the distribution for a complete license
.\" statement.
.\"
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
QXmlLexicalHandler \- Interface to report lexical content of XML data
.br
.PP
\fC#include <qxml.h>\fR
.PP
Inherited by QXmlDefaultHandler.
.PP
.SS "Public Members"
.in +1c
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual bool \fBstartDTD\fR ( const QString & " "name" ", const QString & " "publicId" ", const QString & systemId ) "
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual bool \fBendDTD\fR () "
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual bool \fBstartCDATA\fR () "
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual bool \fBendCDATA\fR () "
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual bool \fBcomment\fR ( const QString & ch ) "
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual QString \fBerrorString\fR () "
.br
.in -1c
.SH DESCRIPTION
The QXmlLexicalHandler class provides an interface to report lexical content of XML data.
.PP
The events in the lexical handler apply to the entire document, not just to the document element, and all lexical handler events appear between the content handler's startDocument and endDocument events.
.PP
You can set the lexical handler with QXmlReader::setLexicalHandler().
.PP
This interface is designed after the SAX2 extension LexicalHandler. The functions startEntity() and endEntity() are not included though.
.PP
See also the Introduction to SAX2.
.PP
See also QXmlDTDHandler, QXmlDeclHandler, QXmlContentHandler, QXmlEntityResolver and QXmlErrorHandler.
.SH MEMBER FUNCTION DOCUMENTATION
.SH "bool QXmlLexicalHandler::comment ( const QString & ch ) \fC[virtual]\fR"
The reader calls this function to report an XML comment anywhere in the document.
.PP
If this function returns FALSE the reader will stop parsing and will report an error. The reader will use the function errorString() to get the error message that will be used for reporting the error.
.PP
Reimplemented in QXmlDefaultHandler.
.SH "bool QXmlLexicalHandler::endCDATA () \fC[virtual]\fR"
The reader calls this function to report the end of a CDATA section.
.PP
If this function returns FALSE the reader will stop parsing and will report an error. The reader will use the function errorString() to get the error message that will be used for reporting the error.
.PP
See also startCDATA().
.PP
Reimplemented in QXmlDefaultHandler.
.SH "bool QXmlLexicalHandler::endDTD () \fC[virtual]\fR"
The reader calls this function to report the end of a DTD declaration, if any.
.PP
If this function returns FALSE the reader will stop parsing and will report an error. The reader will use the function errorString() to get the error message that will be used for reporting the error.
.PP
See also startDTD().
.PP
Reimplemented in QXmlDefaultHandler.
.SH "QString QXmlLexicalHandler::errorString () \fC[virtual]\fR"
The reader calls this function to get an error string if any of the handler functions returns FALSE to him.
.SH "bool QXmlLexicalHandler::startCDATA () \fC[virtual]\fR"
The reader calls this function to report the start of a CDATA section. The content of the CDATA section will be reported through the regular QXmlContentHandler::characters(). This function is intended only to report the boundary.
.PP
If this function returns FALSE the reader will stop parsing and will report an error. The reader will use the function errorString() to get the error message that will be used for reporting the error.
.PP
See also endCDATA().
.PP
Reimplemented in QXmlDefaultHandler.
.SH "bool QXmlLexicalHandler::startDTD ( const QString & name, const QString & publicId, const QString & systemId ) \fC[virtual]\fR"
The reader calls this function to report the start of a DTD declaration, if any.
.PP
All declarations reported through QXmlDTDHandler or QXmlDeclHandler appear between the startDTD() and endDTD() calls.
.PP
If this function returns FALSE the reader will stop parsing and will report an error. The reader will use the function errorString() to get the error message that will be used for reporting the error.
.PP
See also endDTD().
.PP
Reimplemented in QXmlDefaultHandler.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/qxmllexicalhandler.html
.BR http://www.trolltech.com/faq/tech.html
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1992-2001 Trolltech AS, http://www.trolltech.com.  See the
license file included in the distribution for a complete license
statement.
.SH AUTHOR
Generated automatically from the source code.
.SH BUGS
If you find a bug in Qt, please report it as described in
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/bughowto.html .
Good bug reports make our job much simpler. Thank you.
.P
In case of content or formattting problems with this manual page, please
report them to
.BR qt-bugs@trolltech.com .
Please include the name of the manual page (qxmllexicalhandler.3qt) and the Qt
version (2.3.2).
