'\" t
.TH QXmlEntityResolver 3qt "29 October 2001" "Trolltech AS" \" -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright 1992-2001 Trolltech AS.  All rights reserved.  See the
.\" license file included in the distribution for a complete license
.\" statement.
.\"
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
QXmlEntityResolver \- Interface to resolve extern entities contained in XML data
.br
.PP
\fC#include <qxml.h>\fR
.PP
Inherited by QXmlDefaultHandler.
.PP
.SS "Public Members"
.in +1c
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual bool \fBresolveEntity\fR ( const QString & " "publicId" ", const QString & " "systemId" ", QXmlInputSource * ret ) "
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual QString \fBerrorString\fR () "
.br
.in -1c
.SH DESCRIPTION
The QXmlEntityResolver class provides an interface to resolve extern entities contained in XML data.
.PP
If an application needs to implement customized handling for external entities, it must implement this interface and register it with QXmlReader::setEntityResolver().
.PP
See also the Introduction to SAX2.
.PP
See also QXmlDTDHandler, QXmlDeclHandler, QXmlContentHandler, QXmlErrorHandler and QXmlLexicalHandler.
.SH MEMBER FUNCTION DOCUMENTATION
.SH "QString QXmlEntityResolver::errorString () \fC[virtual]\fR"
The reader calls this function to get an error string if any of the handler functions returns FALSE to him.
.SH "bool QXmlEntityResolver::resolveEntity ( const QString & publicId, const QString & systemId, QXmlInputSource * ret ) \fC[virtual]\fR"
The reader will call this function before he opens any external entity, except the top-level document entity. The application may request the reader to resolve the entity itself (\fIret\fR is 0) or to use an entirely different input source (\fIret\fR points to the input source).
.PP
The reader will delete the input source \fIret\fR when he no longer needs it. So you should allocate it on the heap with \fCnew.\fR
.PP
The argument \fIpublicId\fR is the public identifier of the external entity, \fIsystemId\fR is the system identifier of the external entity and \fIret\fR is the return value of this function: if it is 0 the reader should resolve the entity itself, if it is non-zero it must point to an input source which the reader will use instead.
.PP
If this function returns FALSE the reader will stop parsing and will report an error. The reader will use the function errorString() to get the error message that will be used for reporting the error.
.PP
Reimplemented in QXmlDefaultHandler.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/qxmlentityresolver.html
.BR http://www.trolltech.com/faq/tech.html
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1992-2001 Trolltech AS, http://www.trolltech.com.  See the
license file included in the distribution for a complete license
statement.
.SH AUTHOR
Generated automatically from the source code.
.SH BUGS
If you find a bug in Qt, please report it as described in
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/bughowto.html .
Good bug reports make our job much simpler. Thank you.
.P
In case of content or formattting problems with this manual page, please
report them to
.BR qt-bugs@trolltech.com .
Please include the name of the manual page (qxmlentityresolver.3qt) and the Qt
version (2.3.2).
