'\" t
.TH QXmlLocator 3qt "29 October 2001" "Trolltech AS" \" -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright 1992-2001 Trolltech AS.  All rights reserved.  See the
.\" license file included in the distribution for a complete license
.\" statement.
.\"
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
QXmlLocator \- The XML handler classes with information about the actual parsing position
.br
.PP
\fC#include <qxml.h>\fR
.PP
.SS "Public Members"
.in +1c
.ti -1c
.BI "\fBQXmlLocator\fR ( QXmlSimpleReader * parent ) "
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "\fB~QXmlLocator\fR () "
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "int \fBcolumnNumber\fR () "
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "int \fBlineNumber\fR () "
.br
.in -1c
.SH DESCRIPTION
The QXmlLocator class provides the XML handler classes with information about the actual parsing position.
.PP
The reader reports a QXmlLocator to the content handler before he starts to parse the document. This is done with the QXmlContentHandler::setDocumentLocator() function. The handler classes can now use this locator to get the actual position the reader is at.
.SH MEMBER FUNCTION DOCUMENTATION
.SH "QXmlLocator::QXmlLocator ( QXmlSimpleReader * parent )"
Constructor.
.SH "QXmlLocator::~QXmlLocator ()"
Destructor.
.SH "int QXmlLocator::columnNumber ()"
Gets the column number (starting with 1) or -1 if there is no column number available.
.SH "int QXmlLocator::lineNumber ()"
Gets the line number (starting with 1) or -1 if there is no line number
available.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/qxmllocator.html
.BR http://www.trolltech.com/faq/tech.html
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1992-2001 Trolltech AS, http://www.trolltech.com.  See the
license file included in the distribution for a complete license
statement.
.SH AUTHOR
Generated automatically from the source code.
.SH BUGS
If you find a bug in Qt, please report it as described in
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/bughowto.html .
Good bug reports make our job much simpler. Thank you.
.P
In case of content or formattting problems with this manual page, please
report them to
.BR qt-bugs@trolltech.com .
Please include the name of the manual page (qxmllocator.3qt) and the Qt
version (2.3.2).
