'\" t
.TH QXmlDeclHandler 3qt "29 October 2001" "Trolltech AS" \" -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright 1992-2001 Trolltech AS.  All rights reserved.  See the
.\" license file included in the distribution for a complete license
.\" statement.
.\"
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
QXmlDeclHandler \- Interface to report declaration content of XML data
.br
.PP
\fC#include <qxml.h>\fR
.PP
Inherited by QXmlDefaultHandler.
.PP
.SS "Public Members"
.in +1c
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual bool \fBattributeDecl\fR ( const QString & " "eName" ", const QString & " "aName" ", const QString & " "type" ", const QString & " "valueDefault" ", const QString & value ) "
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual bool \fBinternalEntityDecl\fR ( const QString & " "name" ", const QString & value ) "
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual bool \fBexternalEntityDecl\fR ( const QString & " "name" ", const QString & " "publicId" ", const QString & systemId ) "
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual QString \fBerrorString\fR () "
.br
.in -1c
.SH DESCRIPTION
The QXmlDeclHandler class provides an interface to report declaration content of XML data.
.PP
You can set the declaration handler with QXmlReader::setDeclHandler().
.PP
This interface is designed after the SAX2 extension DeclHandler.
.PP
See also the Introduction to SAX2.
.PP
See also QXmlDTDHandler, QXmlContentHandler, QXmlEntityResolver, QXmlErrorHandler and QXmlLexicalHandler.
.SH MEMBER FUNCTION DOCUMENTATION
.SH "bool QXmlDeclHandler::attributeDecl ( const QString & eName, const QString & aName, const QString & type, const QString & valueDefault, const QString & value ) \fC[virtual]\fR"
The reader calls this function to report an attribute type declaration. Only the effective (first) declaration for an attribute will be reported.
.PP
If this function returns FALSE the reader will stop parsing and will report an error. The reader will use the function errorString() to get the error message that will be used for reporting the error.
.PP
Reimplemented in QXmlDefaultHandler.
.SH "QString QXmlDeclHandler::errorString () \fC[virtual]\fR"
The reader calls this function to get an error string if any of the handler functions returns FALSE to him.
.SH "bool QXmlDeclHandler::externalEntityDecl ( const QString & name, const QString & publicId, const QString & systemId ) \fC[virtual]\fR"
The reader calls this function to report a parsed external entity declaration. Only the effective (first) declaration for each entity will be reported.
.PP
If this function returns FALSE the reader will stop parsing and will report an error. The reader will use the function errorString() to get the error message that will be used for reporting the error.
.PP
Reimplemented in QXmlDefaultHandler.
.SH "bool QXmlDeclHandler::internalEntityDecl ( const QString & name, const QString & value ) \fC[virtual]\fR"
The reader calls this function to report an internal entity declaration. Only the effective (first) declaration will be reported.
.PP
If this function returns FALSE the reader will stop parsing and will report an error. The reader will use the function errorString() to get the error message that will be used for reporting the error.
.PP
Reimplemented in QXmlDefaultHandler.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/qxmldeclhandler.html
.BR http://www.trolltech.com/faq/tech.html
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1992-2001 Trolltech AS, http://www.trolltech.com.  See the
license file included in the distribution for a complete license
statement.
.SH AUTHOR
Generated automatically from the source code.
.SH BUGS
If you find a bug in Qt, please report it as described in
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/bughowto.html .
Good bug reports make our job much simpler. Thank you.
.P
In case of content or formattting problems with this manual page, please
report them to
.BR qt-bugs@trolltech.com .
Please include the name of the manual page (qxmldeclhandler.3qt) and the Qt
version (2.3.2).
