'\" t
.TH QXmlAttributes 3qt "29 October 2001" "Trolltech AS" \" -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright 1992-2001 Trolltech AS.  All rights reserved.  See the
.\" license file included in the distribution for a complete license
.\" statement.
.\"
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
QXmlAttributes \- XML attributes
.br
.PP
\fC#include <qxml.h>\fR
.PP
.SS "Public Members"
.in +1c
.ti -1c
.BI "\fBQXmlAttributes\fR () "
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual \fB~QXmlAttributes\fR () "
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "int \fBindex\fR ( const QString & qName ) const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "int \fBindex\fR ( const QString & " "uri" ", const QString & localPart ) const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "int \fBlength\fR () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "QString \fBlocalName\fR ( int index ) const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "QString \fBqName\fR ( int index ) const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "QString \fBuri\fR ( int index ) const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "QString \fBtype\fR ( int index ) const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "QString \fBtype\fR ( const QString & qName ) const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "QString \fBtype\fR ( const QString & " "uri" ", const QString & localName ) const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "QString \fBvalue\fR ( int index ) const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "QString \fBvalue\fR ( const QString & qName ) const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "QString \fBvalue\fR ( const QString & " "uri" ", const QString & localName ) const"
.br
.in -1c
.SH DESCRIPTION
The QXmlAttributes class provides XML attributes.
.PP
If attributes are reported by QXmlContentHandler::startElement() this class is used to pass the attribute values. It provides you with different functions to access the attribute names and values.
.SH MEMBER FUNCTION DOCUMENTATION
.SH "QXmlAttributes::QXmlAttributes ()"
Constructs an empty attribute list.
.SH "QXmlAttributes::~QXmlAttributes () \fC[virtual]\fR"
Destructs attributes.
.SH "int QXmlAttributes::index ( const QString & qName ) const"
Look up the index of an attribute by an XML 1.0 qualified name.
.PP
Returns the index of the attribute (starting with 0) or -1 if it wasn't found.
.PP
See also the namespace description
.SH "int QXmlAttributes::index ( const QString & uri, const QString & localPart ) const"
Looks up the index of an attribute by a namespace name.
.PP
\fIuri\fR specifies the namespace URI, or the empty string if the name has no namespace URI. \fIlocalPart\fR specifies the attribute's local name.
.PP
Returns the index of the attribute (starting with 0) or -1 if it wasn't found.
.PP
See also the namespace description
.SH "int QXmlAttributes::length () const"
Returns the number of attributes in the list.
.SH "QString QXmlAttributes::localName ( int index ) const"
Looks up an attribute's local name by index (starting with 0).
.PP
See also the namespace description
.SH "QString QXmlAttributes::qName ( int index ) const"
Looks up an attribute's XML 1.0 qualified name by index (starting with 0).
.PP
See also the namespace description
.SH "QString QXmlAttributes::type ( const QString & ) const"
Looks up an attribute's type by XML 1.0 qualified name.
.PP
At the moment only 'CDATA' is returned.
.SH "QString QXmlAttributes::type ( const QString &, const QString & ) const"
Looks up an attribute's type by namespace name.
.PP
The first parameter specifies the namespace URI, or the empty string if the name has no namespace URI. The second parameter specifies the attribute's local name.
.PP
At the moment only 'CDATA' is returned.
.SH "QString QXmlAttributes::type ( int ) const"
Looks up an attribute's type by index (starting with 0).
.PP
At the moment only 'CDATA' is returned.
.SH "QString QXmlAttributes::uri ( int index ) const"
Looks up an attribute's namespace URI by index (starting with 0).
.PP
See also the namespace description
.SH "QString QXmlAttributes::value ( const QString & qName ) const"
Looks up an attribute's value by XML 1.0 qualified name.
.PP
See also the namespace description
.SH "QString QXmlAttributes::value ( const QString & uri, const QString & localName ) const"
Looks up an attribute's value by namespace name.
.PP
\fIuri\fR specifies the namespace URI, or the empty string if the name has no namespace URI. \fIlocalName\fR specifies the attribute's local name.
.PP
See also the namespace description
.SH "QString QXmlAttributes::value ( int index ) const"
Looks up an attribute's value by index (starting with 0).
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/qxmlattributes.html
.BR http://www.trolltech.com/faq/tech.html
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1992-2001 Trolltech AS, http://www.trolltech.com.  See the
license file included in the distribution for a complete license
statement.
.SH AUTHOR
Generated automatically from the source code.
.SH BUGS
If you find a bug in Qt, please report it as described in
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/bughowto.html .
Good bug reports make our job much simpler. Thank you.
.P
In case of content or formattting problems with this manual page, please
report them to
.BR qt-bugs@trolltech.com .
Please include the name of the manual page (qxmlattributes.3qt) and the Qt
version (2.3.2).
