'\" t
.TH QXmlErrorHandler 3qt "29 October 2001" "Trolltech AS" \" -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright 1992-2001 Trolltech AS.  All rights reserved.  See the
.\" license file included in the distribution for a complete license
.\" statement.
.\"
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
QXmlErrorHandler \- Interface to report errors in XML data
.br
.PP
\fC#include <qxml.h>\fR
.PP
Inherited by QXmlDefaultHandler.
.PP
.SS "Public Members"
.in +1c
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual bool \fBwarning\fR ( const QXmlParseException & exception ) "
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual bool \fBerror\fR ( const QXmlParseException & exception ) "
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual bool \fBfatalError\fR ( const QXmlParseException & exception ) "
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual QString \fBerrorString\fR () "
.br
.in -1c
.SH DESCRIPTION
The QXmlErrorHandler class provides an interface to report errors in XML data.
.PP
If the application is interested in reporting errors to the user or any other customized error handling, you should subclass this class.
.PP
You can set the error handler with QXmlReader::setErrorHandler().
.PP
See also the Introduction to SAX2.
.PP
See also QXmlDTDHandler, QXmlDeclHandler, QXmlContentHandler, QXmlEntityResolver and QXmlLexicalHandler.
.SH MEMBER FUNCTION DOCUMENTATION
.SH "bool QXmlErrorHandler::error ( const QXmlParseException & exception ) \fC[virtual]\fR"
A reader might use this function to report a recoverable error. A recoverable error corresponds to the definiton of "error" in section 1.2 of the XML 1.0 specification.
.PP
The reader must continue to provide normal parsing events after invoking this function.
.PP
If this function returns FALSE the reader will stop parsing and will report an error. The reader will use the function errorString() to get the error message that will be used for reporting the error.
.PP
Reimplemented in QXmlDefaultHandler.
.SH "QString QXmlErrorHandler::errorString () \fC[virtual]\fR"
The reader calls this function to get an error string if any of the handler functions returns FALSE to him.
.SH "bool QXmlErrorHandler::fatalError ( const QXmlParseException & exception ) \fC[virtual]\fR"
A reader must use this function to report a non-recoverable error.
.PP
If this function returns TRUE the reader might try to go on parsing and reporting further errors; but no regular parsing events are reported.
.PP
Reimplemented in QXmlDefaultHandler.
.SH "bool QXmlErrorHandler::warning ( const QXmlParseException & exception ) \fC[virtual]\fR"
A reader might use this function to report a warning. Warnings are conditions that are not errors or fatal errors as defined by the XML 1.0 specification.
.PP
If this function returns FALSE the reader will stop parsing and will report an error. The reader will use the function errorString() to get the error message that will be used for reporting the error.
.PP
Reimplemented in QXmlDefaultHandler.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/qxmlerrorhandler.html
.BR http://www.trolltech.com/faq/tech.html
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1992-2001 Trolltech AS, http://www.trolltech.com.  See the
license file included in the distribution for a complete license
statement.
.SH AUTHOR
Generated automatically from the source code.
.SH BUGS
If you find a bug in Qt, please report it as described in
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/bughowto.html .
Good bug reports make our job much simpler. Thank you.
.P
In case of content or formattting problems with this manual page, please
report them to
.BR qt-bugs@trolltech.com .
Please include the name of the manual page (qxmlerrorhandler.3qt) and the Qt
version (2.3.2).
