'\" t
.TH QXtApplication 3qt "29 October 2001" "Trolltech AS" \" -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright 1992-2001 Trolltech AS.  All rights reserved.  See the
.\" license file included in the distribution for a complete license
.\" statement.
.\"
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
QXtApplication \- Allows mixing of Xt/Motif and Qt widgets
.br
.PP
\fC#include <qxt.h>\fR
.PP
Inherits QApplication.
.PP
.SS "Public Members"
.in +1c
.ti -1c
.BI "\fBQXtApplication\fR ( int & " "argc" ", char ** " "argv" ", const char * " "appclass" "=0, XrmOptionDescRec * " "options" "=0, int " "num_options" "=0, const char ** " "resources" "=0 ) "
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "\fBQXtApplication\fR ( Display * ) "
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "\fBQXtApplication\fR ( Display *, int, char ** ) "
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "\fB~QXtApplication\fR () "
.br
.in -1c
.SH DESCRIPTION
This class is defined in the \fBQt Xt/Motif Extension\fR, which can be found in the \fCqt/extensions\fR directory. It is not included in the main Qt API.
.PP
Allows mixing of Xt/Motif and Qt widgets.
.PP
The QXtApplication and QXtWidget classes allow old Xt or Motif widgets to be used in new Qt applications. They also allow Qt widgets to be used in primarily Xt/Motif applications. The facility is intended to aid migration from Xt/Motif to the more comfortable Qt system.
.PP
Examples:
.(l
mainlyQt/editor.cpp mainlyXt/editor.cpp mainlyMotif/editor.cpp
.)l
.SH MEMBER FUNCTION DOCUMENTATION
.SH "QXtApplication::QXtApplication ( Display * display )"
Constructs a QApplication from the \fIdisplay\fR of an already-initialized Xt application.
.PP
Use this constructor when introducing Qt widgets into an existing Xt/Motif application.
.SH "QXtApplication::QXtApplication ( int & argc, char ** argv, const char * appclass=0, XrmOptionDescRec * options=0, int num_options=0, const char ** resources=0 )"
Constructs a QApplication and initializes the Xt toolkit. The \fIappclass, options, num_options,\fR and \fIresources\fR arguments are passed on to XtAppSetFallbackResources and XtDisplayInitialize.
.PP
Use this constructor when writing a new Qt application which needs to use some existing Xt/Motif widgets.
.SH "QXtApplication::~QXtApplication ()"
Destructs the application.  Does not close the Xt toolkit.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/qxtapplication.html
.BR http://www.trolltech.com/faq/tech.html
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1992-2001 Trolltech AS, http://www.trolltech.com.  See the
license file included in the distribution for a complete license
statement.
.SH AUTHOR
Generated automatically from the source code.
.SH BUGS
If you find a bug in Qt, please report it as described in
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/bughowto.html .
Good bug reports make our job much simpler. Thank you.
.P
In case of content or formattting problems with this manual page, please
report them to
.BR qt-bugs@trolltech.com .
Please include the name of the manual page (qxtapplication.3qt) and the Qt
version (2.3.2).
