'\" t
.TH QXtWidget 3qt "29 October 2001" "Trolltech AS" \" -*- nroff -*-
.\" Copyright 1992-2001 Trolltech AS.  All rights reserved.  See the
.\" license file included in the distribution for a complete license
.\" statement.
.\"
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
QXtWidget \- Allows mixing of Xt/Motif and Qt widgets
.br
.PP
\fC#include <qxt.h>\fR
.PP
Inherits QWidget.
.PP
.SS "Public Members"
.in +1c
.ti -1c
.BI "\fBQXtWidget\fR ( const char * " "name" ", Widget " "parent" ", bool " "managed" "=FALSE ) "
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "\fBQXtWidget\fR ( const char * " "name" ", WidgetClass " "widget_class" ", QWidget * " "parent" "=0, ArgList " "args" "=0, Cardinal " "num_args" "=0, bool " "managed" "=FALSE ) "
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "\fB~QXtWidget\fR () "
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "Widget \fBxtWidget\fR () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "bool \fBisActiveWindow\fR () const"
.br
.ti -1c
.BI "virtual void \fBsetActiveWindow\fR () "
.br
.in -1c
.SS "Protected Members"
.in +1c
.ti -1c
.BI "bool \fBx11Event\fR ( XEvent * ) "
.br
.in -1c
.SH DESCRIPTION
This class is defined in the \fBQt Xt/Motif Extension\fR, which can be found in the \fCqt/extensions\fR directory. It is not included in the main Qt API.
.PP
Allows mixing of Xt/Motif and Qt widgets.
.PP
QXtWidget acts as a bridge between Xt and Qt. For utilizing old Xt widgets, it can be a QWidget based on a Xt widget class. For including Qt widgets in an existing Xt/Motif application, it can be a special Xt widget class that is a QWidget. See the constructors for the different behaviors.
.PP
Examples:
.(l
mainlyQt/editor.cpp mainlyXt/editor.cpp mainlyMotif/editor.cpp
.)l
.SH MEMBER FUNCTION DOCUMENTATION
.SH "QXtWidget::QXtWidget ( const char * name, Widget parent, bool managed=FALSE )"
Constructs a QXtWidget of the special Xt widget class known as" QWidget" to the resource manager.
.PP
Use this constructor to utilize Qt widgets in an Xt/Motif application. The QXtWidget is a QWidget, so you can create subwidgets, layouts, etc. using Qt functionality.
.SH "QXtWidget::QXtWidget ( const char * name, WidgetClass widget_class, QWidget * parent=0, ArgList args=0, Cardinal num_args=0, bool managed=FALSE )"
Constructs a QXtWidget of the given \fIwidget_class.\fR
.PP
Use this constructor to utilize Xt or Motif widgets in a Qt application. The QXtWidget looks and behaves like the Xt class, but can be used like any QWidget.
.PP
Note that Xt requires that the most toplevel Xt widget is a shell. That means, if \fIparent\fR is a QXtWidget, the \fIwidget_class\fR can be of any kind. If there isn't a parent or the parent is just a normal QWidget, \fIwidget_class\fR should be something like \fCtopLevelShellWidgetClass.\fR
.PP
If the \fImanaged\fR parameter is TRUE and \fIparent\fR in not NULL, XtManageChild it used to manage the child.
.SH "QXtWidget::~QXtWidget ()"
Destructs the QXtWidget.
.SH "bool QXtWidget::isActiveWindow () const"
Different from QWidget::isActiveWindow().
.SH "void QXtWidget::moveEvent ( QMoveEvent * ) \fC[virtual protected]\fR"
Reimplemented for internal reasons; the API is not affected.
.PP
Reimplemented from QWidget.
.SH "void QXtWidget::resizeEvent ( QResizeEvent * ) \fC[virtual protected]\fR"
Reimplemented for internal reasons; the API is not affected.
.PP
Examples:
.(l
mainlyQt/editor.cpp mainlyXt/editor.cpp
.)l
.PP
Reimplemented from QWidget.
.SH "void QXtWidget::setActiveWindow () \fC[virtual]\fR"
Implement a degree of focus handling for Xt widgets.
.PP
Reimplemented from QWidget.
.SH "bool QXtWidget::x11Event ( XEvent * e ) \fC[protected]\fR"
Reimplemented to produce the Xt effect of getting focus when the mouse enters the widget. \fIThis may be changed.\fR
.SH "Widget QXtWidget::xtWidget () const"
Returns the Xt widget equivalent for the Qt widget.
.PP
Examples:
.(l
mainlyXt/editor.cpp mainlyMotif/editor.cpp
.)l
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/qxtwidget.html
.BR http://www.trolltech.com/faq/tech.html
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1992-2001 Trolltech AS, http://www.trolltech.com.  See the
license file included in the distribution for a complete license
statement.
.SH AUTHOR
Generated automatically from the source code.
.SH BUGS
If you find a bug in Qt, please report it as described in
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com/bughowto.html .
Good bug reports make our job much simpler. Thank you.
.P
In case of content or formattting problems with this manual page, please
report them to
.BR qt-bugs@trolltech.com .
Please include the name of the manual page (qxtwidget.3qt) and the Qt
version (2.3.2).
